My lord Cardinal, I do excuse you; yea, upon mine honour,
I free you from’t. You are not to be taught
That you have many enemies that know not
Why they are so, but, like to village curs,
Bark when their fellows do. By some of these
The Queen is put in anger. You’re excused.
But will you be more justified? You ever
Have wished the sleeping of this business, never desired
It to be stirred, but oft have hindered, oft,
The passages made toward it. On my honour
I speak my good lord Card’nal to this point,
And thus far clear him. Now, what moved me to’t,
I will be bold with time and your attention.
Then mark th‘inducement. Thus it came—give heed to’t.
My conscience first received a tenderness,
Scruple, and prick, on certain speeches uttered
By th’ Bishop of Bayonne, then French Ambassador,
Who had been hither sent on the debating
A marriage 
Our daughter Mary. I‘th’ progress of this business,
Ere a determinate resolution, he—
I mean the Bishop—did require a respite
Wherein he might the King his lord advertise
Whether our daughter were legitimate,
Respecting this our marriage with the dowager,
Sometimes our brother’s wife. This respite shook
The bosom of my conscience, entered me,
Yea, with a spitting power, and made to tremble
The region of my breast; which forced such way
That many mazed considerings did throng
And prest in with this caution. First, methought
I stood not in the smile of heaven, who had
Commanded nature that my lady’s womb,
If it conceived a male child by me, should
Do no more offices of life to’t than
The grave does yield to th’ dead. For her male issue
Or died where they were made, or shortly after
This world had aired them. Hence I took a thought
This was a judgement on me that my kingdom,
Well worthy the best heir o’th’ world, should not
Be gladded in’t by me. Then follows that
I weighed the danger which my realms stood in
By this my issue’s fail, and that gave to me
Many a groaning throe. Thus hulling in
The wild sea of my conscience, I did steer
Toward this remedy, whereupon we are
Now present here together—that’s to say
I meant to rectify my conscience, which
I then did feel full sick, and yet not well,
By all the reverend fathers of the land
And doctors learned. First I began in private
With you, my lord of Lincoln. You remember
How under my oppression I did reek
When I first moved you.