EARL OF SALISBURY He was, my lord, and as my worthless self,
With forty other serviceable knights,
Under safe conduct of the Dauphin’s seal,
Did travel that way, finding him distressed,
A troop of lances met us on the way,
Surprised and brought us prisoners to the King,
Who, proud of this and eager of revenge,
Commanded straight to cut off all our heads.
And surely we had died but that the Duke,
More full of honour than his angry sire,
Procured our quick deliverance from thence.
But ere we went, ‘Salute your King,’ quoth he,
‘Bid him provide a funeral for his son.
Today our sword shall cut his thread of life
And, sooner than he thinks, we’ll be with him
To quittance those displeasures he hath done.’
This said, we passed, not daring to reply.
Our hearts were dead, our looks diffused and wan.
Wand‘ring, at last we climbed unto a hill
From whence, although our grief were much before,
Yet now to see the occasion with our eyes
Did thrice so much increase our heaviness.
For there, my lord, O there we did descry
Down in a valley how both armies lay.
The French had cast their trenches like a ring,
And every barricado’s open front
Was thick embossed with brazen ordinance.
Here stood a battle of ten thousand horse,
There twice as many pikes in quadrant wise,
Here crossbows and there deadly wounding darts,
And in the midst, like to a slender point
Within the compass of the horizon,
As ’twere a rising bubble in the sea,
A hazel wand amidst a wood of pines,
Or as a bear fast-chained unto a stake,
Stood famous Edward, still expecting when
Those dogs of France would fasten on his flesh.
Anon, the death-procuring knell begins.
Off go the cannons that, with trembling noise,
Did shake the very mountain where they stood.
Then sound the trumpets’ clangour in the air.
The battles join, and when we could no more
Discern the difference ‘twixt the friend and foe,
So intricate the dark confusion was,
Away we turned our wat’ry eyes with sighs
As black as powder fuming into smoke.
And thus, I fear, unhappy have I told
The most untimely tale of Edward’s fall.