Let me be didactic for a moment! I assume this solemn--oh, call it
not pedantic!--attitude because my eye catches the small but select
corner which constitutes my library of Science. I wanted to say that
if I were advising a young man who was beginning life, I should
counsel him to devote one evening a week to scientific reading. Had
he the perseverance to adhere to his resolution, and if he began
it at twenty, he would certainly find himself with an unusually
well-furnished mind at thirty, which would stand him in right good
stead in whatever line of life he might walk. When I advise him to
read science, I do not mean that he should choke himself with the
dust of the pedants, and lose himself in the subdivisions of the
Lepidoptera, or the classifications of the dicotyledonous plants.
These dreary details are the prickly bushes in that enchanted
garden, and you are foolish indeed if you begin your walks by
butting your head into one. Keep very clear of them until you have
explored the open beds and wandered down every easy path. For this
reason avoid the text-books, which repel, and cultivate that popular
science which attracts. You cannot hope to be a specialist upon all
these varied subjects. Better far to have a broad idea of general
results, and to understand their relations to each other. A very
little reading will give a man such a knowledge of geology, for
example, as will make every quarry and railway cutting an object
of interest. A very little zoology will enable you to satisfy
your curiosity as to what is the proper name and style of this
buff-ermine moth which at the present instant is buzzing round the
lamp. A very little botany will enable you to recognize every flower
you are likely to meet in your walks abroad, and to give you a tiny
thrill of interest when you chance upon one which is beyond your
ken. A very little archaeology will tell you all about yonder
British tumulus, or help you to fill in the outline of the broken
Roman camp upon the downs. A very little astronomy will cause you
to look more intently at the heavens, to pick out your brothers the
planets, who move in your own circles, from the stranger stars,
and to appreciate the order, beauty, and majesty of that material
universe which is most surely the outward sign of the spiritual
force behind it. How a man of science can be a materialist is as
amazing to me as how a sectarian can limit the possibilities of the
Creator. Show me a picture without an artist, show me a bust without
a sculptor, show me music without a musician, and then you may begin
to talk to me of a universe without a Universe-maker, call Him by
what name you will.