That evening a great dun-colored cloud banked up in the west, and an
anxious man was Goodwin Hawtayne, for a third part of his crew had been
slain, and half the remainder were aboard the galleys, so that, with
an injured ship, he was little fit to meet such a storm as sweeps over
those waters. All night it blew in short fitful puffs, heeling the great
cog over until the water curled over her lee bulwarks. As the wind still
freshened the yard was lowered half way down the mast in the morning.
Alleyne, wretchedly ill and weak, with his head still ringing from
the blow which he had received, crawled up upon deck. Water-swept and
aslant, it was preferable to the noisome, rat-haunted dungeons which
served as cabins. There, clinging to the stout halliards of the sheet,
he gazed with amazement at the long lines of black waves, each with
its curling ridge of foam, racing in endless succession from out the
inexhaustible west. A huge sombre cloud, flecked with livid blotches,
stretched over the whole seaward sky-line, with long ragged streamers
whirled out in front of it. Far behind them the two galleys labored
heavily, now sinking between the rollers until their yards were level
with the waves, and again shooting up with a reeling, scooping motion
until every spar and rope stood out hard against the sky. On the left
the low-lying land stretched in a dim haze, rising here and there into
a darker blur which marked the higher capes and headlands. The land
of France! Alleyne's eyes shone as he gazed upon it. The land of
France!--the very words sounded as the call of a bugle in the ears of
the youth of England. The land where their fathers had bled, the home of
chivalry and of knightly deeds, the country of gallant men, of courtly
women, of princely buildings, of the wise, the polished and the sainted.
There it lay, so still and gray beneath the drifting wrack--the home of
things noble and of things shameful--the theatre where a new name
might be made or an old one marred. From his bosom to his lips came the
crumpled veil, and he breathed a vow that if valor and goodwill could
raise him to his lady's side, then death alone should hold him back from
her. His thoughts were still in the woods of Minstead and the old armory
of Twynham Castle, when the hoarse voice of the master-shipman brought
them back once more to the Bay of Biscay.