      Dr. Armstrong took a quick step forward and wrung Holmes by the
      hand.       “You are a good fellow,” said he. “I had misjudged you. I thank
      heaven that my compunction at leaving poor Staunton all alone in
      this plight caused me to turn my carriage back and so to make
      your acquaintance. Knowing as much as you do, the situation is
      very easily explained. A year ago Godfrey Staunton lodged in
      London for a time and became passionately attached to his
      landlady’s daughter, whom he married. She was as good as she was
      beautiful and as intelligent as she was good. No man need be
      ashamed of such a wife. But Godfrey was the heir to this crabbed
      old nobleman, and it was quite certain that the news of his
      marriage would have been the end of his inheritance. I knew the
      lad well, and I loved him for his many excellent qualities. I did
      all I could to help him to keep things straight. We did our very
      best to keep the thing from everyone, for, when once such a
      whisper gets about, it is not long before everyone has heard it.
      Thanks to this lonely cottage and his own discretion, Godfrey has
      up to now succeeded. Their secret was known to no one save to me
      and to one excellent servant, who has at present gone for
      assistance to Trumpington. But at last there came a terrible blow
      in the shape of dangerous illness to his wife. It was consumption
      of the most virulent kind. The poor boy was half crazed with
      grief, and yet he had to go to London to play this match, for he
      could not get out of it without explanations which would expose
      his secret. I tried to cheer him up by wire, and he sent me one
      in reply, imploring me to do all I could. This was the telegram
      which you appear in some inexplicable way to have seen. I did not
      tell him how urgent the danger was, for I knew that he could do
      no good here, but I sent the truth to the girl’s father, and he
      very injudiciously communicated it to Godfrey. The result was
      that he came straight away in a state bordering on frenzy, and
      has remained in the same state, kneeling at the end of her bed,
      until this morning death put an end to her sufferings. That is
      all, Mr. Holmes, and I am sure that I can rely upon your
      discretion and that of your friend.”