“Is that where the shoe galls?” cried the bowman, and laughed aloud.
“I will ask you what you think of him three months hence, if we be all
alive; for sure I am that----” Aylward's words were interrupted by an extraordinary hubbub which broke
out that instant some little way down the street in the direction of the
Priory. There was deep-mouthed shouting of men, frightened shrieks of
women, howling and barking of curs, and over all a sullen, thunderous
rumble, indescribably menacing and terrible. Round the corner of the
narrow street there came rushing a brace of whining dogs with tails
tucked under their legs, and after them a white-faced burgher, with
outstretched hands and wide-spread fingers, his hair all abristle and
his eyes glinting back from one shoulder to the other, as though some
great terror were at his very heels. “Fly, my lady, fly!” he screeched,
and whizzed past them like bolt from bow; while close behind came
lumbering a huge black bear, with red tongue lolling from his mouth, and
a broken chain jangling behind him. To right and left the folk flew for
arch and doorway. Hordle John caught up the Lady Loring as though
she had been a feather, and sprang with her into an open porch; while
Aylward, with a whirl of French oaths, plucked at his quiver and tried
to unsling his bow. Alleyne, all unnerved at so strange and unwonted a
sight, shrunk up against the wall with his eyes fixed upon the frenzied
creature, which came bounding along with ungainly speed, looking the
larger in the uncertain light, its huge jaws agape, with blood and
slaver trickling to the ground. Sir Nigel alone, unconscious to all
appearance of the universal panic, walked with unfaltering step up
the centre of the road, a silken handkerchief in one hand and his gold
comfit-box in the other. It sent the blood cold through Alleyne's veins
to see that as they came together--the man and the beast--the creature
reared up, with eyes ablaze with fear and hate, and whirled its great
paws above the knight to smite him to the earth. He, however, blinking
with puckered eyes, reached up his kerchief, and flicked the beast twice
across the snout with it. “Ah, saucy! saucy,” quoth he, with gentle
chiding; on which the bear, uncertain and puzzled, dropped its four legs
to earth again, and, waddling back, was soon swathed in ropes by the
bear-ward and a crowd of peasants who had been in close pursuit.