It is not only in Napoleonic memoirs that the French are so
fortunate. The almost equally interesting age of Louis XIV. produced
an even more wonderful series. If you go deeply into the subject
you are amazed by their number, and you feel as if every one at the
Court of the Roi Soleil had done what he (or she) could to give
away their neighbours. Just to take the more obvious, there are St.
Simon's Memoirs--those in themselves give us a more comprehensive
and intimate view of the age than anything I know of which treats
of the times of Queen Victoria. Then there is St. Evremond, who is
nearly as complete. Do you want the view of a woman of quality?
There are the letters of Madame de Sevigne (eight volumes of
them), perhaps the most wonderful series of letters that any woman
has ever penned. Do you want the confessions of a rake of the
period? Here are the too salacious memoirs of the mischievous Duc
de Roquelaure, not reading for the nursery certainly, not even for
the boudoir, but a strange and very intimate picture of the times.
All these books fit into each other, for the characters of the one
reappear in the others. You come to know them quite familiarly
before you have finished, their loves and their hates, their duels,
their intrigues, and their ultimate fortunes. If you do not care
to go so deeply into it you have only to put Julia Pardoe's
four-volumed "Court of Louis XIV." upon your shelf, and you will
find a very admirable condensation--or a distillation rather, for
most of the salt is left behind. There is another book too--that
big one on the bottom shelf--which holds it all between its brown
and gold covers. An extravagance that--for it cost me some
sovereigns--but it is something to have the portraits of all that
wonderful galaxy, of Louis, of the devout Maintenon, of the frail
Montespan, of Bossuet, Fenelon, Moliere, Racine, Pascal, Conde,
Turenne, and all the saints and sinners of the age. If you want to
make yourself a present, and chance upon a copy of "The Court and
Times of Louis XIV.," you will never think that your money has
been wasted.