      “The tea which had been ordered was brought up at the end of ten
      minutes; but the maid, as she approached the door, was surprised
      to hear the voices of her master and mistress in furious
      altercation. She knocked without receiving any answer, and even
      turned the handle, but only to find that the door was locked upon
      the inside. Naturally enough she ran down to tell the cook, and
      the two women with the coachman came up into the hall and
      listened to the dispute which was still raging. They all agreed
      that only two voices were to be heard, those of Barclay and of
      his wife. Barclay’s remarks were subdued and abrupt, so that none
      of them were audible to the listeners. The lady’s, on the other
      hand, were most bitter, and when she raised her voice could be
      plainly heard. ‘You coward!’ she repeated over and over again.
      ‘What can be done now? What can be done now? Give me back my
      life. I will never so much as breathe the same air with you
      again! You coward! You coward!’ Those were scraps of her
      conversation, ending in a sudden dreadful cry in the man’s voice,
      with a crash, and a piercing scream from the woman. Convinced
      that some tragedy had occurred, the coachman rushed to the door
      and strove to force it, while scream after scream issued from
      within. He was unable, however, to make his way in, and the maids
      were too distracted with fear to be of any assistance to him. A
      sudden thought struck him, however, and he ran through the hall
      door and round to the lawn upon which the long French windows
      open. One side of the window was open, which I understand was
      quite usual in the summer-time, and he passed without difficulty
      into the room. His mistress had ceased to scream and was
      stretched insensible upon a couch, while with his feet tilted
      over the side of an armchair, and his head upon the ground near
      the corner of the fender, was lying the unfortunate soldier stone
      dead in a pool of his own blood.