“Here is Sir Nigel Loring, on foot and with his sword,” said the prince.
“I have heard that he is a fine swordsman.” “The finest in your army, sire,” Chandos answered. “Yet I doubt not that
he will need all his skill this day.” As he spoke, the two combatants advanced from either end in full armor
with their two-handed swords sloping over their shoulders. The stranger
walked heavily and with a measured stride, while the English knight
advanced as briskly as though there was no iron shell to weigh down the
freedom of his limbs. At four paces distance they stopped, eyed each
other for a moment, and then in an instant fell to work with a clatter
and clang as though two sturdy smiths were busy upon their anvils. Up
and down went the long, shining blades, round and round they circled in
curves of glimmering light, crossing, meeting, disengaging, with flash
of sparks at every parry. Here and there bounded Sir Nigel, his head
erect, his jaunty plume fluttering in the air, while his dark opponent
sent in crashing blow upon blow, following fiercely up with cut and with
thrust, but never once getting past the practised blade of the skilled
swordsman. The crowd roared with delight as Sir Nigel would stoop his
head to avoid a blow, or by some slight movement of his body allow some
terrible thrust to glance harmlessly past him. Suddenly, however, his
time came. The Frenchman, whirling up his sword, showed for an instant
a chink betwixt his shoulder piece and the rerebrace which guarded his
upper arm. In dashed Sir Nigel, and out again so swiftly that the eye
could not follow the quick play of his blade, but a trickle of blood
from the stranger's shoulder, and a rapidly widening red smudge upon his
white surcoat, showed where the thrust had taken effect. The wound was,
however, but a slight one, and the Frenchman was about to renew his
onset, when, at a sign from the prince, Chandos threw down his baton,
and the marshals of the lists struck up the weapons and brought the
contest to an end.