Of all these accounts the one which is most deserving of study is
"Raymond."  This is so because it has been compiled from several famous
mediums working independently of each other, and has been checked and
chronicled by a man who is not only one of the foremost scientists of
the world, and probably the leading intellectual force in Europe, but
one who has also had a unique experience of the precautions necessary
for the observation of psychic phenomena.  The bright and sweet nature
of the young soldier upon the other side, and his eagerness to tell of
his experience is also a factor which will appeal to those who are
already satisfied as to the truth of the communications.  For all these
reasons it is a most important document--indeed it would be no
exaggeration to say that it is one of the most important in recent
literature.  It is, as I believe, an authentic account of the life in
the beyond, and it is often more interesting from its sidelights and
reservations than for its actual assertions, though the latter bear the
stamp of absolute frankness and sincerity.  The compilation is in some
ways faulty.  Sir Oliver has not always the art of writing so as to be
understanded of the people, and his deeper and more weighty thoughts
get in the way of the clear utterances of his son.  Then again, in his
anxiety to be absolutely accurate, Sir Oliver has reproduced the fact
that sometimes Raymond is speaking direct, and sometimes the control is
reporting what Raymond is saying, so that the same paragraph may turn
several times from the first person to the third in a manner which must
be utterly unintelligible to those who are not versed in the subject.
Sir Oliver will, I am sure, not be offended if I say that, having
satisfied his conscience by the present edition, he should now leave it
for reference, and put forth a new one which should contain nothing but
the words of Raymond and his spirit friends.  Such a book, published at
a low price, would, I think, have an amazing effect, and get all this
new teaching to the spot that God has marked for it--the minds and
hearts of the people.