"Dr. Illingworth began his remarks by expressing his high appreciation
of the scientific work both of Professor Challenger and of Professor
Summerlee.  He much regretted that any personal bias should have been
read into his remarks, which were entirely dictated by his desire for
scientific truth.  His position, in fact, was substantially the same as
that taken up by Professor Summerlee at the last meeting.  At that last
meeting Professor Challenger had made certain assertions which had been
queried by his colleague.  Now this colleague came forward himself with
the same assertions and expected them to remain unquestioned.  Was this
reasonable?  ('Yes,' 'No,' and prolonged interruption, during which
Professor Challenger was heard from the Press box to ask leave from the
chairman to put Dr. Illingworth into the street.) A year ago one man
said certain things.  Now four men said other and more startling ones.
Was this to constitute a final proof where the matters in question were
of the most revolutionary and incredible character?  There had been
recent examples of travelers arriving from the unknown with certain
tales which had been too readily accepted.  Was the London Zoological
Institute to place itself in this position?  He admitted that the
members of the committee were men of character.  But human nature was
very complex.  Even Professors might be misled by the desire for
notoriety.  Like moths, we all love best to flutter in the light.
Heavy-game shots liked to be in a position to cap the tales of their
rivals, and journalists were not averse from sensational coups, even
when imagination had to aid fact in the process.  Each member of the
committee had his own motive for making the most of his results.
('Shame! shame!')  He had no desire to be offensive.  ('You are!' and
interruption.)  The corroboration of these wondrous tales was really of
the most slender description.  What did it amount to?  Some
photographs. {Was it possible that in this age of ingenious
manipulation photographs could be accepted as evidence?}  What more?
We have a story of a flight and a descent by ropes which precluded the
production of larger specimens.  It was ingenious, but not convincing.
It was understood that Lord John Roxton claimed to have the skull of a
phororachus.  He could only say that he would like to see that skull.