      “I had only one confidant—my brother Mycroft. I owe you many
      apologies, my dear Watson, but it was all-important that it
      should be thought I was dead, and it is quite certain that you
      would not have written so convincing an account of my unhappy end
      had you not yourself thought that it was true. Several times
      during the last three years I have taken up my pen to write to
      you, but always I feared lest your affectionate regard for me
      should tempt you to some indiscretion which would betray my
      secret. For that reason I turned away from you this evening when
      you upset my books, for I was in danger at the time, and any show
      of surprise and emotion upon your part might have drawn attention
      to my identity and led to the most deplorable and irreparable
      results. As to Mycroft, I had to confide in him in order to
      obtain the money which I needed. The course of events in London
      did not run so well as I had hoped, for the trial of the Moriarty
      gang left two of its most dangerous members, my own most
      vindictive enemies, at liberty. I travelled for two years in
      Tibet, therefore, and amused myself by visiting Lhassa, and
      spending some days with the head lama. You may have read of the
      remarkable explorations of a Norwegian named Sigerson, but I am
      sure that it never occurred to you that you were receiving news
      of your friend. I then passed through Persia, looked in at Mecca,
      and paid a short but interesting visit to the Khalifa at Khartoum
      the results of which I have communicated to the Foreign Office.
      Returning to France, I spent some months in a research into the
      coal-tar derivatives, which I conducted in a laboratory at
      Montpellier, in the south of France. Having concluded this to my
      satisfaction and learning that only one of my enemies was now
      left in London, I was about to return when my movements were
      hastened by the news of this very remarkable Park Lane Mystery,
      which not only appealed to me by its own merits, but which seemed
      to offer some most peculiar personal opportunities. I came over
      at once to London, called in my own person at Baker Street, threw
      Mrs. Hudson into violent hysterics, and found that Mycroft had
      preserved my rooms and my papers exactly as they had always been.
      So it was, my dear Watson, that at two o’clock to-day I found
      myself in my old armchair in my own old room, and only wishing
      that I could have seen my old friend Watson in the other chair
      which he has so often adorned.”