"The first patient is a thing which one remembers all one's life. Mine
was commonplace, and the details are of no interest. I had a curious
visitor, however, during the first few months after my plate went up. It
was an elderly woman, richly dressed, with a wicker-work picnic basket
in her hand. This she opened with the tears streaming down her face, and
out there waddled the fattest, ugliest and mangiest little pug dog that
I have ever seen. 'I wish you to put him painlessly out of the world,
doctor,' she cried. 'Quick, quick, or my resolution may give way.' She
flung herself down, with hysterical sobs, upon the sofa. The less
experienced a doctor is, the higher are his notions of professional
dignity, as I need not remind you, my young friend, so I was about to
refuse the commission with indignation, when I bethought me that, quite
apart from medicine, we were gentleman and lady, and that she had asked
me to do something for her which was evidently of the greatest possible
importance in her eyes. I led off the poor little doggie, therefore, and
with the help of a saucerful of milk and a few drops of prussic acid his
exit was as speedy and painless as could be desired. 'Is it over?' she
cried as I entered. It was really tragic to see how all the love which
should have gone to husband and children had, in default of them, been
centred upon this uncouth little animal. She left, quite broken down, in
her carriage, and it was only after her departure that I saw an envelope
sealed with a large red seal, and lying upon the blotting pad of my
desk. Outside, in pencil, was written:--'I have no doubt that you would
willingly have done this without a fee, but I insist upon your
acceptance of the enclosed.' I opened it with some vague notions of an
eccentric millionaire and a fifty pound note, but all I found was a
postal order for four and sixpence. The whole incident struck me as so
whimsical that I laughed until I was tired. You'll find there's so much
tragedy in a doctor's life, my boy, that he would not be able to stand
it if it were not for the strain of comedy which comes every now and
then to leaven it.