I have dwelt upon these results, which could be matched by other
mediums, to show that we have solid and certain reasons to say that the
verbal reports are not from the mediums themselves.  Readers of Arthur
Hill's "Psychical Investigations" will find many even more convincing
cases.  So in the written communications, I have in a previous paper
pointed to the "Gate of Remembrance" case, but there is a great mass of
material which proves that, in spite of mistakes and failures, there
really is a channel of communication, fitful and evasive sometimes, but
entirely beyond coincidence or fraud.  These, then, are the usual means
by which we receive psychic messages, though table tilting, ouija
boards, glasses upon a smooth surface, or anything which can be moved
by the vital animal-magnetic force already discussed will equally serve
the purpose.  Often information is conveyed orally or by writing which
could not have been known to anyone concerned.  Mr. Wilkinson has given
details of the case where his dead son drew attention to the fact that
a curio (a coin bent by a bullet) had been overlooked among his
effects.  Sir William Barrett has narrated how a young officer sent a
message leaving a pearl tie-pin to a friend.  No one knew that such a
pin existed, but it was found among his things.  The death of Sir Hugh
Lane was given at a private seance in Dublin before the details of the
Lusitania disaster had been published.[4]  On that morning we
ourselves, in a small seance, got the message "It is terrible,
terrible, and will greatly affect the war," at a time when we were
convinced that no great loss of life could have occurred.  Such
examples are very numerous, and are only quoted here to show how
impossible it is to invoke telepathy as the origin of such messages.
There is only one explanation which covers the facts.  They are what
they say they are, messages from those who have passed on, from the
spiritual body which was seen to rise from the deathbed, which has been
so often photographed, which pervades all religion in every age, and
which has been able, under proper circumstances, to materialise back
into a temporary solidity so that it could walk and talk like a mortal,
whether in Jerusalem two thousand years ago, or in the laboratory of
Mr. Crookes, in Mornington Road, London.