This was not hard to do, as the Boer General had simply escaped from one
pen into another, though a larger one. After a short rest to restore the
columns, the whole pack were full cry upon his heels once more. An
acute angle is formed by the Wilge River on one side and the line of
blockhouses between Harrismith and Van Reenen upon the other. This was
strongly manned by troops and five columns; those of Rawlinson, Nixon,
Byng, Rimington, and Keir herded the broken commandos into the trap.
From February 20th the troops swept in an enormous skirmish line across
the country, ascending hills, exploring kloofs, searching river banks,
and always keeping the enemy in front of them. At last, when the
pressure was severely felt, there came the usual breakback, which took
the form of a most determined night attack upon the British line. This
was delivered shortly after midnight on February 23rd. It struck the
British cordon at the point of juncture between Byng's column and that
of Rimington. So huge were the distances which had to be covered, and
so attenuated was the force which covered them, that the historical thin
red line was a massive formation compared to its khaki equivalent. The
chain was frail and the links were not all carefully joined, but each
particular link was good metal, and the Boer impact came upon one of the
best. This was the 7th New Zealand Contingent, who proved themselves to
be worthy comrades to their six gallant predecessors. Their patrols were
broken by the rush of wild, yelling, firing horsemen, but the troopers
made a most gallant resistance. Having pierced the line the Boers, who
were led in their fiery rush by Manie Botha, turned to their flank, and,
charging down the line of weak patrols, overwhelmed one after another
and threatened to roll up the whole line. They had cleared a gap of half
a mile, and it seemed as if the whole Boer force would certainly escape
through so long a gap in the defences. The desperate defence of the New
Zealanders gave time, however, for the further patrols, which consisted
of Cox's New South Wales Mounted Infantry, to fall back almost at right
angles so as to present a fresh face to the attack. The pivot of the
resistance was a maxim gun, most gallantly handled by Captain Begbie and
his men. The fight at this point was almost muzzle to muzzle, fifty or
sixty New Zealanders and Australians with the British gunners holding
off a force of several hundred of the best fighting men of the Boer
forces. In this desperate duel many dropped on both sides. Begbie died
beside his gun, which fired eighty rounds before it jammed. It was run
back by its crew in order to save it from capture. But reinforcements
were coming up, and the Boer attack was beaten back. A number of them
had escaped, however, through the opening which they had cleared, and it
was conjectured that the wonderful De Wet was among them. How fierce was
the storm which had broken on the New Zealanders may be shown by their
roll of twenty killed and forty wounded, while thirty dead Boers were
picked up in front of their picket line. Of eight New Zealand officers
seven are reported to have been hit, an even higher proportion than that
which the same gallant race endured at the battle of Rhenoster Kop more
than a year before.