‘And your brothers and sisters?’ I asked; ‘how hath this circumstance
affected them?’ The road was bleak and long, so that the old soldier’s
gossip was a welcome break to the tedium of the journey. ‘They have all succumbed,’ said Saxon, with a groan. ‘Alas, alas! they
were a goodly company could they have turned their talents to better
uses. Prima was our eldest born. She did well until she attained
womanhood. Secundus was a stout seaman, and owned his own vessel when
he was yet a young man. It was remarked, however, that he started on a
voyage in a schooner and came back in a brig, which gave rise to some
inquiry. It may be, as he said, that he found it drifting about in the
North Sea, and abandoned his own vessel in favour of it, but they hung
him before he could prove it. Tertia ran away with a north-country
drover, and hath been on the run ever since. Quartus and Nonus have been
long engaged in busying themselves over the rescue of the black folk
from their own benighted and heathen country, conveying them over by the
shipload to the plantations, where they may learn the beauties of the
Christian religion. They are, however, men of violent temper and profane
speech, who cherish no affection for their younger brother. Quintus was
a lad of promise, but he found a hogshead of rumbo which was thrown up
from a wreck, and he died soon afterwards. Sextus might have done well,
for he became clerk to Johnny Tranter the attorney; but he was of an
enterprising turn, and he shifted the whole business, papers, cash, and
all to the Lowlands, to the no small inconvenience of his employer, who
hath never been able to lay hands either on one or the other from that
day to this. Septimus died young. As to Octavius, Will Spotterbridge
broke out early in him, and he was slain in a quarrel over some dice,
which were said by his enemies to be so weighted that the six must ever
come upwards. Let this moving recital be a warning to ye, if ye are
fools enough to saddle yourselves with a wife, to see that she hath
no vice in her, for a fair face is a sorry make-weight against a foul
mind.’