      “‘When did it happen, doctor?’ asked Trevor.       “‘Almost immediately after you left.’       “‘Did he recover consciousness?’       “‘For an instant before the end.’       “‘Any message for me.’       “‘Only that the papers were in the back drawer of the Japanese
      cabinet.’       “My friend ascended with the doctor to the chamber of death,
      while I remained in the study, turning the whole matter over and
      over in my head, and feeling as sombre as ever I had done in my
      life. What was the past of this Trevor, pugilist, traveler, and
      gold-digger, and how had he placed himself in the power of this
      acid-faced seaman? Why, too, should he faint at an allusion to
      the half-effaced initials upon his arm, and die of fright when he
      had a letter from Fordingbridge? Then I remembered that
      Fordingbridge was in Hampshire, and that this Mr. Beddoes, whom
      the seaman had gone to visit and presumably to blackmail, had
      also been mentioned as living in Hampshire. The letter, then,
      might either come from Hudson, the seaman, saying that he had
      betrayed the guilty secret which appeared to exist, or it might
      come from Beddoes, warning an old confederate that such a
      betrayal was imminent. So far it seemed clear enough. But then
      how could this letter be trivial and grotesque, as described by
      the son? He must have misread it. If so, it must have been one of
      those ingenious secret codes which mean one thing while they seem
      to mean another. I must see this letter. If there were a hidden
      meaning in it, I was confident that I could pluck it forth. For
      an hour I sat pondering over it in the gloom, until at last a
      weeping maid brought in a lamp, and close at her heels came my
      friend Trevor, pale but composed, with these very papers which
      lie upon my knee held in his grasp. He sat down opposite to me,
      drew the lamp to the edge of the table, and handed me a short
      note scribbled, as you see, upon a single sheet of grey paper.
      ‘The supply of game for London is going steadily up,’ it ran.
      ‘Head-keeper Hudson, we believe, has been now told to receive all
      orders for fly paper and for preservation of your hen pheasant’s
      life.’