“And naught else?” “Had you looked more closely you might have seen that there was a stain
upon the wood. The first time that I ever heard my comrade Black Simon
laugh was in front of that door. I heard him once again when he slew a
French squire with his teeth, he being unarmed and the Frenchman having
a dagger.” “And why did Simon laugh in front of the inn-door!” asked John. “Simon is a hard and perilous man when he hath the bitter drop in him;
and, by my hilt! he was born for war, for there is little sweetness or
rest in him. This inn, the 'Mouton d'Or,' was kept in the old days by
one Francois Gourval, who had a hard fist and a harder heart. It was
said that many and many an archer coming from the wars had been served
with wine with simples in it, until he slept, and had then been stripped
of all by this Gourval. Then on the morrow, if he made complaint, this
wicked Gourval would throw him out upon the road or beat him, for he
was a very lusty man, and had many stout varlets in his service. This
chanced to come to Simon's ears when we were at Bordeaux together, and
he would have it that we should ride to Cardillac with a good hempen
cord, and give this Gourval such a scourging as he merited. Forth we
rode then, but when we came to the 'Mouton d'Or,' Gourval had had word of
our coming and its purpose, so that the door was barred, nor was there
any way into the house. 'Let us in, good Master Gourval!' cried Simon,
and 'Let us in, good Master Gourval!' cried I, but no word could we get
through the hole in the door, save that he would draw an arrow upon us
unless we went on our way. 'Well, Master Gourval,' quoth Simon at last,
'this is but a sorry welcome, seeing that we have ridden so far just to
shake you by the hand.' 'Canst shake me by the hand without coming in,'
said Gourval. 'And how that?' asked Simon. 'By passing in your hand
through the hole,' said he. 'Nay, my hand is wounded,' quoth Simon, 'and
of such a size that I cannot pass it in.' 'That need not hinder,' said
Gourval, who was hot to be rid of us, 'pass in your left hand.' 'But I
have something for thee, Gourval,' said Simon. 'What then?' he asked.
'There was an English archer who slept here last week of the name of
Hugh of Nutbourne.' 'We have had many rogues here,' said Gourval. 'His
conscience hath been heavy within him because he owes you a debt of
fourteen deniers, having drunk wine for which he hath never paid.
For the easing of his soul, he asked me to pay the money to you as I
passed.' Now this Gourval was very greedy for money, so he thrust forth
his hand for the fourteen deniers, but Simon had his dagger ready and
he pinned his hand to the door. 'I have paid the Englishman's debt,
Gourval!' quoth he, and so rode away, laughing so that he could scarce
sit his horse, leaving mine host still nailed to his door. Such is the
story of the hole which you have marked, and of the smudge upon the
wood. I have heard that from that time English archers have been better
treated in the auberge of Cardillac. But what have we here by the
wayside?”