      “No, I saw nothing.”       “Ah! then you must have overlooked it. Just toss it over to me.
      Here it is, under the financial column. Perhaps you would be good
      enough to read it aloud.”       I picked up the paper which he had thrown back to me and read the
      paragraph indicated. It was headed, “A Gruesome Packet.”       “Miss Susan Cushing, living at Cross Street, Croydon, has been
      made the victim of what must be regarded as a peculiarly
      revolting practical joke unless some more sinister meaning should
      prove to be attached to the incident. At two o’clock yesterday
      afternoon a small packet, wrapped in brown paper, was handed in
      by the postman. A cardboard box was inside, which was filled with
      coarse salt. On emptying this, Miss Cushing was horrified to find
      two human ears, apparently quite freshly severed. The box had
      been sent by parcel post from Belfast upon the morning before.
      There is no indication as to the sender, and the matter is the
      more mysterious as Miss Cushing, who is a maiden lady of fifty,
      has led a most retired life, and has so few acquaintances or
      correspondents that it is a rare event for her to receive
      anything through the post. Some years ago, however, when she
      resided at Penge, she let apartments in her house to three young
      medical students, whom she was obliged to get rid of on account
      of their noisy and irregular habits. The police are of opinion
      that this outrage may have been perpetrated upon Miss Cushing by
      these youths, who owed her a grudge and who hoped to frighten her
      by sending her these relics of the dissecting-rooms. Some
      probability is lent to the theory by the fact that one of these
      students came from the north of Ireland, and, to the best of Miss
      Cushing’s belief, from Belfast. In the meantime, the matter is
      being actively investigated, Mr. Lestrade, one of the very
      smartest of our detective officers, being in charge of the case.”