Wellington used to say that too much was made of it, and that one
would imagine that the British Army had never fought a battle
before. It was a characteristic speech, but it must be admitted that
the British Army never had, as a matter of fact, for many centuries
fought a battle which was finally decisive of a great European war.
There lies the perennial interest of the incident, that it was the
last act of that long-drawn drama, and that to the very fall of the
curtain no man could tell how the play would end--"the nearest run
thing that ever you saw"--that was the victor's description. It is
a singular thing that during those twenty-five years of incessant
fighting the material and methods of warfare made so little
progress. So far as I know, there was no great change in either
between 1789 and 1805. The breech-loader, heavy artillery, the
ironclad, all great advances in the art of war, have been invented
in time of peace. There are some improvements so obvious, and at
the same time so valuable, that it is extraordinary that they were
not adopted. Signalling, for example, whether by heliograph or by
flag-waving, would have made an immense difference in the Napoleonic
campaigns. The principle of the semaphore was well known, and
Belgium, with its numerous windmills, would seem to be furnished
with natural semaphores. Yet in the four days during which the
campaign of Waterloo was fought, the whole scheme of military
operations on both sides was again and again imperilled, and finally
in the case of the French brought to utter ruin by lack of that
intelligence which could so easily have been conveyed. June 18th was
at intervals a sunshiny day--a four-inch glass mirror would have
put Napoleon in communication with Gruchy, and the whole history
of Europe might have been altered. Wellington himself suffered
dreadfully from defective information which might have been easily
supplied. The unexpected presence of the French army was first
discovered at four in the morning of June 15. It was of enormous
importance to get the news rapidly to Wellington at Brussels that he
might instantly concentrate his scattered forces on the best line
of resistance--yet, through the folly of sending only a single
messenger, this vital information did not reach him until three in
the afternoon, the distance being thirty miles. Again, when Blucher
was defeated at Ligny on the 16th, it was of enormous importance
that Wellington should know at once the line of his retreat so as
to prevent the French from driving a wedge between them. The single
Prussian officer who was despatched with this information was
wounded, and never reached his destination, and it was only next
day that Wellington learned the Prussian plans. On what tiny things
does History depend!