I have spoken of the need for careful and cool-headed analysis in
judging the evidence where automatic writing is concerned.  One is
bound to exclude spirit explanations until all natural ones have been
exhausted, though I do not include among natural ones the extreme
claims of far-fetched telepathy such as that another person can read in
your thoughts things of which you were never yourself aware.  Such
explanations are not explanations, but mystifications and absurdities,
though they seem to have a special attraction for a certain sort of
psychical researcher, who is obviously destined to go on researching to
the end of time, without ever reaching any conclusion save that of the
patience of those who try to follow his reasoning.  To give a good
example of valid automatic script, chosen out of many which I could
quote, I would draw the reader's attention to the facts as to the
excavations at Glastonbury, as detailed in "The Gate of Remembrance" by
Mr. Bligh Bond.  Mr. Bligh Bond, by the way, is not a Spiritualist, but
the same cannot be said of the writer of the automatic script, an
amateur medium, who was able to indicate the secrets of the buried
abbey, which were proved to be correct when the ruins were uncovered.
I can truly say that, though I have read much of the old monastic life,
it has never been brought home to me so closely as by the messages and
descriptions of dear old Brother Johannes, the earth-bound
spirit--earthbound by his great love for the old abbey in which he had
spent his human life.  This book, with its practical sequel, may be
quoted as an excellent example of automatic writing at its highest, for
what telepathic explanation can cover the detailed description of
objects which lie unseen by any human eye?  It must be admitted,
however, that in automatic writing you are at one end of the telephone,
if one may use such a simile, and you have, no assurance as to who is
at the other end.  You may have wildly false messages suddenly
interpolated among truthful ones--messages so detailed in their
mendacity that it is impossible to think that they are not deliberately
false.  When once we have accepted the central fact that spirits change
little in essentials when leaving the body, and that in consequence the
world is infested by many low and mischievous types, one can understand
that these untoward incidents are rather a confirmation of Spiritualism
than an argument against it.  Personally I have received and have been
deceived by several such messages.  At the same time I can say that
after an experience of thirty years of such communications I have never
known a blasphemous, an obscene or an unkind sentence come through.  I
admit, however, that I have heard of such cases.  Like attracts like,
and one should know one's human company before one joins in such
intimate and reverent rites.  In clairvoyance the same sudden
inexplicable deceptions appear.  I have closely followed the work of
one female medium, a professional, whose results are so extraordinarily
good that in a favourable case she will give the full names of the
deceased as well as the most definite and convincing test messages.
Yet among this splendid series of results I have notes of several in
which she was a complete failure and absolutely wrong upon essentials.
How can this be explained?  We can only answer that conditions were
obviously not propitious, but why or how are among the many problems of
the future.  It is a profound and most complicated subject, however
easily it may be settled by the "ridiculous nonsense" school of
critics.  I look at the row of books upon the left of my desk as I
write--ninety-six solid volumes, many of them annotated and well
thumbed, and yet I know that I am like a child wading ankle deep in the
margin of an illimitable ocean.  But this, at least, I have very
clearly realised, that the ocean is there and that the margin is part
of it, and that down that shelving shore the human race is destined to
move slowly to deeper waters.  In the next chapter, I will endeavour to
show what is the purpose of the Creator in this strange revelation of
new intelligent forces impinging upon our planet.  It is this view of
the question which must justify the claim that this movement, so long
the subject of sneers and ridicule, is absolutely the most important
development in the whole history of the human race, so important that,
if we could conceive one single man discovering and publishing it, he
would rank before Christopher Columbus as a discoverer of new worlds,
before Paul as a teacher of new religious truths, and before Isaac
Newton as a student of the laws of the Universe.