I wonder if there is any picture extant of Gibbon in the character
of subaltern in the South Hampshire Militia? With his small frame,
his huge head, his round, chubby face, and the pretentious uniform,
he must have looked a most extraordinary figure. Never was there so
round a peg in a square hole! His father, a man of a very different
type, held a commission, and this led to poor Gibbon becoming a
soldier in spite of himself. War had broken out, the regiment was
mustered, and the unfortunate student, to his own utter dismay, was
kept under arms until the conclusion of hostilities. For three years
he was divorced from his books, and loudly and bitterly did he
resent it. The South Hampshire Militia never saw the enemy, which is
perhaps as well for them. Even Gibbon himself pokes fun at them; but
after three years under canvas it is probable that his men had more
cause to smile at their book-worm captain than he at his men. His
hand closed much more readily on a pen-handle than on a sword-hilt.
In his lament, one of the items is that his colonel's example
encouraged the daily practice of hard and even excessive drinking,
which gave him the gout. "The loss of so many busy and idle hours
were not compensated for by any elegant pleasure," says he; "and my
temper was insensibly soured by the society of rustic officers, who
were alike deficient in the knowledge of scholars and the manners
of gentlemen." The picture of Gibbon flushed with wine at the
mess-table, with these hard-drinking squires around him, must
certainly have been a curious one. He admits, however, that he
found consolations as well as hardships in his spell of soldiering.
It made him an Englishman once more, it improved his health, it
changed the current of his thoughts. It was even useful to him as
an historian. In a celebrated and characteristic sentence, he says,
"The discipline and evolutions of a modern battalion gave me a
clearer notion of the Phalanx and the Legions, and the captain of
the Hampshire Grenadiers has not been useless to the historian of
the Roman Empire."