"Ladies and Gentlemen," he began, amid a sustained interruption from
the back.  "I beg pardon--Ladies, Gentlemen, and Children--I must
apologize, I had inadvertently omitted a considerable section of this
audience" (tumult, during which the Professor stood with one hand
raised and his enormous head nodding sympathetically, as if he were
bestowing a pontifical blessing upon the crowd), "I have been selected
to move a vote of thanks to Mr. Waldron for the very picturesque and
imaginative address to which we have just listened.  There are points
in it with which I disagree, and it has been my duty to indicate them
as they arose, but, none the less, Mr. Waldron has accomplished his
object well, that object being to give a simple and interesting account
of what he conceives to have been the history of our planet.  Popular
lectures are the easiest to listen to, but Mr. Waldron" (here he beamed
and blinked at the lecturer) "will excuse me when I say that they are
necessarily both superficial and misleading, since they have to be
graded to the comprehension of an ignorant audience."  (Ironical
cheering.)  "Popular lecturers are in their nature parasitic."  (Angry
gesture of protest from Mr. Waldron.)  "They exploit for fame or cash
the work which has been done by their indigent and unknown brethren.
One smallest new fact obtained in the laboratory, one brick built into
the temple of science, far outweighs any second-hand exposition which
passes an idle hour, but can leave no useful result behind it.  I put
forward this obvious reflection, not out of any desire to disparage Mr.
Waldron in particular, but that you may not lose your sense of
proportion and mistake the acolyte for the high priest." (At this point
Mr. Waldron whispered to the chairman, who half rose and said something
severely to his water-carafe.)  "But enough of this!"  (Loud and
prolonged cheers.)  "Let me pass to some subject of wider interest.
What is the particular point upon which I, as an original investigator,
have challenged our lecturer's accuracy?  It is upon the permanence of
certain types of animal life upon the earth.  I do not speak upon this
subject as an amateur, nor, I may add, as a popular lecturer, but I
speak as one whose scientific conscience compels him to adhere closely
to facts, when I say that Mr. Waldron is very wrong in supposing that
because he has never himself seen a so-called prehistoric animal,
therefore these creatures no longer exist.  They are indeed, as he has
said, our ancestors, but they are, if I may use the expression, our
contemporary ancestors, who can still be found with all their hideous
and formidable characteristics if one has but the energy and hardihood
to seek their haunts.  Creatures which were supposed to be Jurassic,
monsters who would hunt down and devour our largest and fiercest
mammals, still exist." (Cries of "Bosh!" "Prove it!" "How do YOU know?"
"Question!") "How do I know, you ask me? I know because I have visited
their secret haunts.  I know because I have seen some of them."
(Applause, uproar, and a voice, "Liar!")  "Am I a liar?" (General
hearty and noisy assent.)  "Did I hear someone say that I was a liar?
Will the person who called me a liar kindly stand up that I may know
him?"  (A voice, "Here he is, sir!" and an inoffensive little person in
spectacles, struggling violently, was held up among a group of
students.)  "Did you venture to call me a liar?"  ("No, sir, no!"
shouted the accused, and disappeared like a jack-in-the-box.)  "If any
person in this hall dares to doubt my veracity, I shall be glad to have
a few words with him after the lecture."  ("Liar!")  "Who said that?"
(Again the inoffensive one plunging desperately, was elevated high into
the air.) "If I come down among you----" (General chorus of "Come,
love, come!" which interrupted the proceedings for some moments, while
the chairman, standing up and waving both his arms, seemed to be
conducting the music.  The Professor, with his face flushed, his
nostrils dilated, and his beard bristling, was now in a proper Berserk
mood.)  "Every great discoverer has been met with the same
incredulity--the sure brand of a generation of fools.  When great facts
are laid before you, you have not the intuition, the imagination which
would help you to understand them.  You can only throw mud at the men
who have risked their lives to open new fields to science.  You
persecute the prophets!  Galileo!  Darwin, and I----" (Prolonged
cheering and complete interruption.)