      “I understood that it did not open.”       She touched a spring, and the front hinged back. There was a
      portrait within of a man strikingly handsome and
      intelligent-looking, but bearing unmistakable signs upon his
      features of his African descent.       “That is John Hebron, of Atlanta,” said the lady, “and a nobler
      man never walked the earth. I cut myself off from my race in
      order to wed him, but never once while he lived did I for an
      instant regret it. It was our misfortune that our only child took
      after his people rather than mine. It is often so in such
      matches, and little Lucy is darker far than ever her father was.
      But dark or fair, she is my own dear little girlie, and her
      mother’s pet.” The little creature ran across at the words and
      nestled up against the lady’s dress. “When I left her in
      America,” she continued, “it was only because her health was
      weak, and the change might have done her harm. She was given to
      the care of a faithful Scotch woman who had once been our
      servant. Never for an instant did I dream of disowning her as my
      child. But when chance threw you in my way, Jack, and I learned
      to love you, I feared to tell you about my child. God forgive me,
      I feared that I should lose you, and I had not the courage to
      tell you. I had to choose between you, and in my weakness I
      turned away from my own little girl. For three years I have kept
      her existence a secret from you, but I heard from the nurse, and
      I knew that all was well with her. At last, however, there came
      an overwhelming desire to see the child once more. I struggled
      against it, but in vain. Though I knew the danger, I determined
      to have the child over, if it were but for a few weeks. I sent a
      hundred pounds to the nurse, and I gave her instructions about
      this cottage, so that she might come as a neighbour, without my
      appearing to be in any way connected with her. I pushed my
      precautions so far as to order her to keep the child in the house
      during the daytime, and to cover up her little face and hands so
      that even those who might see her at the window should not gossip
      about there being a black child in the neighbourhood. If I had
      been less cautious I might have been more wise, but I was half
      crazy with fear that you should learn the truth.