At the beginning of August the connected systematic work of French's
columns began to tell. In a huge semicircle the British were pushing
north, driving the guerillas in front of them. Scheepers in his usual
wayward fashion had broken away to the south, but the others had been
unable to penetrate the cordon and were herded over the Stormberg to
Naauwport line. The main body of the Boers was hustled swiftly along
from August 7th to August 10th, from Graaf-Reinet to Thebus, and thrust
over the railway line at that point with some loss of men and a great
shedding of horses. It was hoped that the blockhouses on the railroad
would have held the enemy, but they slipped across by night and got into
the Steynsburg district, where Gorringe's colonials took up the running.
On August 18th he followed the commandos from Steynsburg to Venterstad,
killing twenty of them and taking several prisoners. On the 15th,
Kritzinger with the main body of the invaders passed the Orange River
near Bethulie, and made his way to the Wepener district of the Orange
River Colony. Scheepers, Lotter, Lategan, and a few small wandering
bands were the only Boers left in the Colony, and to these the British
columns now turned their attention, with the result that Lategan,
towards the end of the month, was also driven over the river. For the
time, at least, the situation seemed to have very much improved, but
there was a drift of Boers over the north-western frontier, and the
long-continued warfare at their own doors was undoubtedly having a
dangerous effect upon the Dutch farmers. Small successes from time
to time, such as the taking of sixty of French's Scouts by Theron's
commando on August 10th, served to keep them from despair. Of the
guerilla bands which remained, the most important was that of Scheepers,
which now numbered 300 men, well mounted and supplied. He had broken
back through the cordon, and made for his old haunts in the south-west.
Theron, with a smaller band, was also in the Uniondale and Willowmore
district, approaching close to the sea in the Mossel Bay direction, but
being headed off by Kavanagh. Scheepers turned in the direction of Cape
Town, but swerved aside at Montagu, and moved northwards towards Touws
River.