      “Yes, a provisional one. But I shall be surprised if it does not
      turn out to be correct. This woman’s first husband is in that
      cottage.”       “Why do you think so?”       “How else can we explain her frenzied anxiety that her second one
      should not enter it? The facts, as I read them, are something
      like this: This woman was married in America. Her husband
      developed some hateful qualities; or shall we say that he
      contracted some loathsome disease, and became a leper or an
      imbecile? She flies from him at last, returns to England, changes
      her name, and starts her life, as she thinks, afresh. She has
      been married three years, and believes that her position is quite
      secure, having shown her husband the death certificate of some
      man whose name she has assumed, when suddenly her whereabouts is
      discovered by her first husband; or, we may suppose, by some
      unscrupulous woman who has attached herself to the invalid. They
      write to the wife, and threaten to come and expose her. She asks
      for a hundred pounds, and endeavours to buy them off. They come
      in spite of it, and when the husband mentions casually to the
      wife that there are new-comers in the cottage, she knows in some
      way that they are her pursuers. She waits until her husband is
      asleep, and then she rushes down to endeavour to persuade them to
      leave her in peace. Having no success, she goes again next
      morning, and her husband meets her, as he has told us, as she
      comes out. She promises him then not to go there again, but two
      days afterwards the hope of getting rid of those dreadful
      neighbours was too strong for her, and she made another attempt,
      taking down with her the photograph which had probably been
      demanded from her. In the midst of this interview the maid rushed
      in to say that the master had come home, on which the wife,
      knowing that he would come straight down to the cottage, hurried
      the inmates out at the back door, into the grove of fir-trees,
      probably, which was mentioned as standing near. In this way he
      found the place deserted. I shall be very much surprised,
      however, if it is still so when he reconnoitres it this evening.
      What do you think of my theory?”