      Young Overton’s face assumed the bothered look of the man who is
      more accustomed to using his muscles than his wits, but by
      degrees, with many repetitions and obscurities which I may omit
      from his narrative, he laid his strange story before us.       “It’s this way, Mr. Holmes. As I have said, I am the skipper of
      the Rugger team of Cambridge ’Varsity, and Godfrey Staunton is my
      best man. To-morrow we play Oxford. Yesterday we all came up, and
      we settled at Bentley’s private hotel. At ten o’clock I went
      round and saw that all the fellows had gone to roost, for I
      believe in strict training and plenty of sleep to keep a team
      fit. I had a word or two with Godfrey before he turned in. He
      seemed to me to be pale and bothered. I asked him what was the
      matter. He said he was all right—just a touch of headache. I bade
      him good-night and left him. Half an hour later, the porter tells
      me that a rough-looking man with a beard called with a note for
      Godfrey. He had not gone to bed, and the note was taken to his
      room. Godfrey read it, and fell back in a chair as if he had been
      pole-axed. The porter was so scared that he was going to fetch
      me, but Godfrey stopped him, had a drink of water, and pulled
      himself together. Then he went downstairs, said a few words to
      the man who was waiting in the hall, and the two of them went off
      together. The last that the porter saw of them, they were almost
      running down the street in the direction of the Strand. This
      morning Godfrey’s room was empty, his bed had never been slept
      in, and his things were all just as I had seen them the night
      before. He had gone off at a moment’s notice with this stranger,
      and no word has come from him since. I don’t believe he will ever
      come back. He was a sportsman, was Godfrey, down to his marrow,
      and he wouldn’t have stopped his training and let in his skipper
      if it were not for some cause that was too strong for him. No: I
      feel as if he were gone for good, and we should never see him
      again.”