      “Well, I never thought to see her again, but last voyage I was
      promoted, and the new boat was not yet launched, so I had to wait
      for a couple of months with my people at Sydenham. One day out in
      a country lane I met Theresa Wright, her old maid. She told me
      all about her, about him, about everything. I tell you,
      gentlemen, it nearly drove me mad. This drunken hound, that he
      should dare to raise his hand to her, whose boots he was not
      worthy to lick! I met Theresa again. Then I met Mary herself—and
      met her again. Then she would meet me no more. But the other day
      I had a notice that I was to start on my voyage within a week,
      and I determined that I would see her once before I left. Theresa
      was always my friend, for she loved Mary and hated this villain
      almost as much as I did. From her I learned the ways of the
      house. Mary used to sit up reading in her own little room
      downstairs. I crept round there last night and scratched at the
      window. At first she would not open to me, but in her heart I
      know that now she loves me, and she could not leave me in the
      frosty night. She whispered to me to come round to the big front
      window, and I found it open before me, so as to let me into the
      dining-room. Again I heard from her own lips things that made my
      blood boil, and again I cursed this brute who mishandled the
      woman I loved. Well, gentlemen, I was standing with her just
      inside the window, in all innocence, as God is my judge, when he
      rushed like a madman into the room, called her the vilest name
      that a man could use to a woman, and welted her across the face
      with the stick he had in his hand. I had sprung for the poker,
      and it was a fair fight between us. See here, on my arm, where
      his first blow fell. Then it was my turn, and I went through him
      as if he had been a rotten pumpkin. Do you think I was sorry? Not
      I! It was his life or mine, but far more than that, it was his
      life or hers, for how could I leave her in the power of this
      madman? That was how I killed him. Was I wrong? Well, then, what
      would either of you gentlemen have done, if you had been in my
      position?