The first is that in the Bible, which is the foundation of our present
religious thought, we have bound together the living and the dead, and
the dead has tainted the living.  A mummy and an angel are in most
unnatural partnership.  There can be no clear thinking, and no logical
teaching until the old dispensation has been placed on the shelf of the
scholar, and removed from the desk of the teacher.  It is indeed a
wonderful book, in parts the oldest which has come down to us, a book
filled with rare knowledge, with history, with poetry, with occultism,
with folklore.  But it has no connection with modern conceptions of
religion.  In the main it is actually antagonistic to them.  Two
contradictory codes have been circulated under one cover, and the
result is dire confusion.  The one is a scheme depending upon a special
tribal God, intensely anthropomorphic and filled with rage, jealousy
and revenge.  The conception pervades every book of the Old Testament.
Even in the psalms, which are perhaps the most spiritual and beautiful
section, the psalmist, amid much that is noble, sings of the fearsome
things which his God will do to his enemies.  "They shall go down alive
into hell."  There is the keynote of this ancient document--a document
which advocates massacre, condones polygamy, accepts slavery, and
orders the burning of so-called witches.  Its Mosaic provisions have
long been laid aside.  We do not consider ourselves accursed if we fail
to mutilate our bodies, if we eat forbidden dishes, fail to trim our
beards, or wear clothes of two materials.  But we cannot lay aside the
provisions and yet regard the document as divine.  No learned quibbles
can ever persuade an honest earnest mind that that is right.  One may
say:  "Everyone knows that that is the old dispensation, and is not to
be acted upon."  It is not true.  It is continually acted upon, and
always will be so long as it is made part of one sacred book.  William
the Second acted upon it.  His German God which wrought such mischief
in the world was the reflection of the dreadful being who ordered that
captives be put under the harrow.  The cities of Belgium were the
reflection of the cities of Moab.  Every hard-hearted brute in history,
more especially in the religious wars, has found his inspiration in the
Old Testament.  "Smite and spare not!"  "An eye for an eye!", how
readily the texts spring to the grim lips of the murderous fanatic.
Francis on St. Bartholomew's night, Alva in the Lowlands, Tilly at
Magdeburg, Cromwell at Drogheda, the Covenainters at Philliphaugh, the
Anabaptists of Munster, and the early Mormons of Utah, all found their
murderous impulses fortified from this unholy source.  Its red trail
runs through history.  Even where the New Testament prevails, its
teaching must still be dulled and clouded by its sterner neighbour.
Let us retain this honoured work of literature.  Let us remove the
taint which poisons the very spring of our religious thought.