      A discovery has just been made by the Parisian police (said the
      _Daily Telegraph_) which raises the veil which hung round the
      tragic fate of Mr. Eduardo Lucas, who met his death by violence
      last Monday night at Godolphin Street, Westminster. Our readers
      will remember that the deceased gentleman was found stabbed in
      his room, and that some suspicion attached to his valet, but that
      the case broke down on an _alibi_. Yesterday a lady, who has been
      known as Mme. Henri Fournaye, occupying a small villa in the Rue
      Austerlitz, was reported to the authorities by her servants as
      being insane. An examination showed she had indeed developed
      mania of a dangerous and permanent form. On inquiry, the police
      have discovered that Mme. Henri Fournaye only returned from a
      journey to London on Tuesday last, and there is evidence to
      connect her with the crime at Westminster. A comparison of
      photographs has proved conclusively that M. Henri Fournaye and
      Eduardo Lucas were really one and the same person, and that the
      deceased had for some reason lived a double life in London and
      Paris. Mme. Fournaye, who is of Creole origin, is of an extremely
      excitable nature, and has suffered in the past from attacks of
      jealousy which have amounted to frenzy. It is conjectured that it
      was in one of these that she committed the terrible crime which
      has caused such a sensation in London. Her movements upon the
      Monday night have not yet been traced, but it is undoubted that a
      woman answering to her description attracted much attention at
      Charing Cross Station on Tuesday morning by the wildness of her
      appearance and the violence of her gestures. It is probable,
      therefore, that the crime was either committed when insane, or
      that its immediate effect was to drive the unhappy woman out of
      her mind. At present she is unable to give any coherent account
      of the past, and the doctors hold out no hopes of the
      reestablishment of her reason. There is evidence that a woman,
      who might have been Mme. Fournaye, was seen for some hours upon
      Monday night watching the house in Godolphin Street.