‘And, pray, how fared ye with these rufflers, sir?’ I asked. ‘They beset us, and some few other honest citizens who were wending
their ways homewards, and waving their naked swords they called upon us
to lay down our arms and pay homage. “To whom?” I asked. They pointed
to one of their number who was more gaudily dressed and somewhat
drunker than the rest. “This is our most sovereign liege,” they cried.
“Sovereign over whom?” I asked. “Over the Tityre Tus,” they answered.
“Oh, most barbarous and cuckoldy citizen, do you not recognise that you
have fallen into the hands of that most noble order?” “This is not your
real monarch,” said I, “for he is down beneath us chained in the pit,
where some day he will gather his dutiful subjects around him.” “Lo, he
hath spoken treason!” they cried, on which, without much more ado, they
set upon us with sword and dagger. Neighbour Foster and I placed our
backs against a wall, and with our cloaks round our left arms we made
play with our tucks, and managed to put in one or two of the old Wigan
Lane raspers. In particular, friend Foster pinked the King in such wise
that his Majesty ran howling down the street like a gored bull-pup. We
were beset by numbers, however, and might have ended our mission then
and there had not the watch appeared upon the scene, struck up our
weapons with their halberds, and so arrested the whole party. Whilst the
fray lasted the burghers from the adjoining houses were pouring water
upon us, as though we were cats on the tiles, which, though it did
not cool our ardour in the fight, left us in a scurvy and unsavoury
condition. In this guise we were dragged to the round-house, where we
spent the night amidst bullies, thieves, and orange wenches, to whom I
am proud to say that both neighbour Foster and myself spoke some words
of joy and comfort. In the morning we were released, and forthwith shook
the dust of London from our feet; nor do I ever wish to return thither,
unless it be at the head of our Somersetshire regiments, to see King
Monmouth don the crown which he had wrested in fair fight from the
Popish perverter.’