The British cavalry found themselves, however, in the position of the
hunter who, when he is out for a snipe, puts up a tiger. All went well
with the expedition as far as Holspruit, the farm which they had started
to search. Commandant Pretorius, to whom it belonged, was taken by the
energy of Major Vaughan, who pursued and overtook his Cape cart. It was
found, however, that Alberts's commando was camped at the farm, and that
the Bays were in the presence of a very superior force of the enemy. The
night was dark, and when firing began it was almost muzzle to muzzle,
with the greatest possible difficulty in telling friend from foe. The
three squadrons fell back upon some rising ground, keeping admirable
order under most difficult circumstances. In spite of the darkness the
attack was pressed fiercely home, and with their favourite tactics the
burghers rapidly outflanked the position taken up by the cavalry. The
British moved by alternate squadrons on to a higher rocky kopje on
the east, which could be vaguely distinguished looming in the darkness
against the skyline. B squadron, the last to retire, was actually
charged and ridden through by the brave assailants, firing from their
saddles as they broke through the ranks. The British had hardly time
to reach the kopje and to dismount and line its edge when the Boers,
yelling loudly, charged with their horses up the steep flanks. Twice
they were beaten back, but the third time they seized one corner of the
hill and opened a hot fire upon the rear of the line of men who were
defending the other side. Dawn was now breaking, and the situation most
serious, for the Boers were in very superior numbers and were pushing
their pursuit with the utmost vigour and determination. A small party of
officers and men whose horses had been shot covered the retreat of their
comrades, and continued to fire until all of them, two officers and
twenty-three men, were killed or wounded, the whole of their desperate
defence being conducted within from thirty to fifty yards of the enemy.
The remainder of the regiment was now retired to successive ridges,
each of which was rapidly outflanked by the Boers, whose whole method
of conducting their attack was extraordinarily skilful. Nothing but the
excellent discipline of the overmatched troopers prevented the
retreat from becoming a rout. Fortunately, before the pressure became
intolerable the 7th Hussars with some artillery came to the rescue, and
turned the tide. The Hussars galloped in with such dash that some of
them actually got among the Boers with their swords, but the enemy
rapidly fell back and disappeared.