Before Viljoen's force made its way over the line it had its revenge for
the long harrying it had undergone by a well-managed night attack, in
which it surprised and defeated a portion of Colonel Beatson's column
at a place called Wilmansrust, due south of Middelburg, and between
that town and Bethel. Beatson had divided his force, and this section
consisted of 850 of the 5th Victorian Mounted Rifles, with thirty
gunners and two pom-poms, the whole under the command of Major
Morris. Viljoen's force trekking north towards the line came upon this
detachment upon June 12th. The British were aware of the presence of the
enemy, but do not appear to have posted any extra outposts or taken any
special precautions. Long months of commando chasing had imbued them too
much with the idea that these were fugitive sheep, and not fierce and
wily wolves, whom they were endeavouring to catch. It is said that 700
yards separated the four pickets. With that fine eye for detail which
the Boer leaders possess, they had started a veld fire upon the west of
the camp and then attacked from the east, so that they were themselves
invisible while their enemies were silhouetted against the light.
Creeping up between the pickets, the Boers were not seen until they
opened fire at point-blank range upon the sleeping men. The rifles were
stacked--another noxious military tradition--and many of the troopers
were shot down while they rushed for their weapons. Surprised out of
their sleep and unable to distinguish their antagonists, the brave
Australians did as well as any troops could have done who were placed in
so impossible a position. Captain Watson, the officer in charge of the
pom-poms, was shot down, and it proved to be impossible to bring the
guns into action. Within five minutes the Victorians had lost twenty
killed and forty wounded, when the survivors surrendered. It is
pleasant to add that they were very well treated by the victors, but
the high-spirited colonials felt their reverse most bitterly. 'It is the
worst thing that ever happened to Australia!' says one in the letter in
which he describes it. The actual number of Boers who rushed the camp
was only 180, but 400 more had formed a cordon round it. To Viljoen and
his lieutenant Muller great credit must be given for this well-managed
affair, which gave them a fresh supply of stores and clothing at a time
when they were hard pressed for both. These same Boer officers had
led the attack upon Helvetia where the 4.7 gun was taken. The
victors succeeded in getting away with all their trophies, and having
temporarily taken one of the blockhouses on the railway near Brugspruit,
they crossed the line in safety and returned, as already said, to their
old quarters in the north, which had been harried but not denuded by the
operations of General Blood.