
The contemplation of my fine little regiment of French military
memoirs had brought me to the question of Napoleon himself, and you
see that I have a very fair line dealing with him also. There is
Scott's life, which is not entirely a success. His ink was too
precious to be shed in such a venture. But here are the three
volumes of the physician Bourrienne--that Bourrienne who knew him so
well. Does any one ever know a man so well as his doctor? They are
quite excellent and admirably translated. Meneval also--the patient
Meneval--who wrote for untold hours to dictation at ordinary talking
speed, and yet was expected to be legible and to make no mistakes.
At least his master could not fairly criticize his legibility, for
is it not on record that when Napoleon's holograph account of an
engagement was laid before the President of the Senate, the worthy
man thought that it was a drawn plan of the battle? Meneval survived
his master and has left an excellent and intimate account of him.
There is Constant's account, also written from that point of view in
which it is proverbial that no man is a hero. But of all the vivid
terrible pictures of Napoleon the most haunting is by a man who
never saw him and whose book was not directly dealing with him. I
mean Taine's account of him, in the first volume of "Les Origines de
la France Contemporaine." You can never forget it when once you have
read it. He produces his effect in a wonderful, and to me a novel,
way. He does not, for example, say in mere crude words that Napoleon
had a more than mediaeval Italian cunning. He presents a succession
of documents--gives a series of contemporary instances to prove
it. Then, having got that fixed in your head by blow after blow,
he passes on to another phase of his character, his coldhearted
amorousness, his power of work, his spoiled child wilfulness, or
some other quality, and piles up his illustrations of that. Instead,
for example, of saying that the Emperor had a marvellous memory for
detail, we have the account of the head of Artillery laying the list
of all the guns in France before his master, who looked over it and
remarked, "Yes, but you have omitted two in a fort near Dieppe." So
the man is gradually etched in with indelible ink. It is a wonderful
figure of which you are conscious in the end, the figure of an
archangel, but surely of an archangel of darkness.