Let me hark back for a moment to the subject with which I began, the
romance of travel and the frequent heroism of modern life. I have
two books of Scientific Exploration here which exhibit both these
qualities as strongly as any I know. I could not choose two better
books to put into a young man's hands if you wished to train him
first in a gentle and noble firmness of mind, and secondly in a
great love for and interest in all that pertains to Nature. The one
is Darwin's "Journal of the Voyage of the Beagle." Any discerning
eye must have detected long before the "Origin of Species" appeared,
simply on the strength of this book of travel, that a brain of the
first order, united with many rare qualities of character, had
arisen. Never was there a more comprehensive mind. Nothing was too
small and nothing too great for its alert observation. One page is
occupied in the analysis of some peculiarity in the web of a minute
spider, while the next deals with the evidence for the subsidence of
a continent and the extinction of a myriad animals. And his sweep of
knowledge was so great--botany, geology, zoology, each lending its
corroborative aid to the other. How a youth of Darwin's age--he was
only twenty-three when in the year 1831 he started round the world
on the surveying ship Beagle--could have acquired such a mass of
information fills one with the same wonder, and is perhaps of the
same nature, as the boy musician who exhibits by instinct the touch
of the master. Another quality which one would be less disposed
to look for in the savant is a fine contempt for danger, which is
veiled in such modesty that one reads between the lines in order
to detect it. When he was in the Argentina, the country outside the
Settlements was covered with roving bands of horse Indians, who gave
no quarter to any whites. Yet Darwin rode the four hundred miles
between Bahia and Buenos Ayres, when even the hardy Gauchos refused
to accompany him. Personal danger and a hideous death were small
things to him compared to a new beetle or an undescribed fly.