A force of Boers were observed, as the mist cleared, making for a
ridge which would command the road along which the convoy and guns
were moving. Two squadrons (B and C) of the Light Horse were instantly
detached to seize the point. They do not appear to have realised that
they were in the immediate presence of the enemy, and they imagined that
the ground over which they were passing had been already reconnoitred
by a troop of the 14th Hussars. It is true that four scouts were thrown
forward, but as both squadrons were cantering there was no time for
these to get ahead. Presently C squadron, which was behind, was ordered
to close up upon the left of B squadron, and the 150 horsemen in one
long line swept over a low grassy ridge. Some hundreds of De la Rey's
men were lying in the long grass upon the further side, and their first
volley, fired at a fifty-yard range, emptied a score of saddles.
It would have been wiser, if less gallant, to retire at once in the
presence of a numerous and invisible enemy, but the survivors were
ordered to dismount and return the fire. This was done, but the hail of
bullets was terrific and the casualties were numerous. Captain Norman,
of C squadron, then retired his men, who withdrew in good order. B
squadron having lost Yockney, its brave leader, heard no order, so they
held their ground until few of them had escaped the driving sleet of
lead. Many of the men were struck three and four times. There was no
surrender, and the extermination of B company added another laurel, even
at a moment of defeat, to the regiment whose reputation was so grimly
upheld. The Boer victors walked in among the litter of stricken men
and horses. 'Practically all of them were dressed in khaki and had the
water-bottles and haversacks of our soldiers. One of them snatched a
bayonet from a dead man, and was about to despatch one of our wounded
when he was stopped in the nick of time by a man in a black suit, who, I
afterwards heard, was De la Rey himself...The feature of the action
was the incomparable heroism of our dear old Colonel Wools-Sampson.'
So wrote a survivor of B company, himself shot through the body. It was
four hours before a fresh British advance reoccupied the ridge, and by
that time the Boers had disappeared. Some seventy killed and wounded,
many of them terribly mutilated, were found on the scene of the
disaster. It is certainly a singular coincidence that at distant points
of the seat of war two of the crack irregular corps should have suffered
so severely within three days of each other. In each case, however,
their prestige was enhanced rather than lowered by the result. These
incidents tend, however, to shake the belief that scouting is better
performed in the Colonial than in the regular forces.