“She did, my lord.” “By Saint Paul! my mind misgives me as to what she saw at Twynham
Castle. And yet I cannot think that any Scottish or French rovers could
land in such force as to beleaguer the fortalice. Call the Company
together, Aylward; and let us on, for it will be shame to us if we are
not at Dax upon the trysting day.” The archers had spread themselves over the ruins, but a blast upon a
bugle brought them all back to muster, with such booty as they could
bear with them stuffed into their pouches or slung over their shoulders.
As they formed into ranks, each man dropping silently into his place,
Sir Nigel ran a questioning eye over them, and a smile of pleasure
played over his face. Tall and sinewy, and brown, clear-eyed,
hard-featured, with the stern and prompt bearing of experienced
soldiers, it would be hard indeed for a leader to seek for a choicer
following. Here and there in the ranks were old soldiers of the French
wars, grizzled and lean, with fierce, puckered features and shaggy,
bristling brows. The most, however, were young and dandy archers, with
fresh English faces, their beards combed out, their hair curling from
under their close steel hufkens, with gold or jewelled earrings gleaming
in their ears, while their gold-spangled baldrics, their silken belts,
and the chains which many of them wore round their thick brown necks,
all spoke of the brave times which they had had as free companions. Each
had a yew or hazel stave slung over his shoulder, plain and serviceable
with the older men, but gaudily painted and carved at either end with
the others. Steel caps, mail brigandines, white surcoats with the red
lion of St. George, and sword or battle-axe swinging from their belts,
completed this equipment, while in some cases the murderous maule or
five-foot mallet was hung across the bowstave, being fastened to their
leathern shoulder-belt by a hook in the centre of the handle. Sir
Nigel's heart beat high as he looked upon their free bearing and
fearless faces.