      One other neighbour I have met since I wrote last. This is Mr.
      Frankland, of Lafter Hall, who lives some four miles to the south
      of us. He is an elderly man, red-faced, white-haired, and
      choleric. His passion is for the British law, and he has spent a
      large fortune in litigation. He fights for the mere pleasure of
      fighting and is equally ready to take up either side of a
      question, so that it is no wonder that he has found it a costly
      amusement. Sometimes he will shut up a right of way and defy the
      parish to make him open it. At others he will with his own hands
      tear down some other man’s gate and declare that a path has
      existed there from time immemorial, defying the owner to
      prosecute him for trespass. He is learned in old manorial and
      communal rights, and he applies his knowledge sometimes in favour
      of the villagers of Fernworthy and sometimes against them, so
      that he is periodically either carried in triumph down the
      village street or else burned in effigy, according to his latest
      exploit. He is said to have about seven lawsuits upon his hands
      at present, which will probably swallow up the remainder of his
      fortune and so draw his sting and leave him harmless for the
      future. Apart from the law he seems a kindly, good-natured
      person, and I only mention him because you were particular that I
      should send some description of the people who surround us. He is
      curiously employed at present, for, being an amateur astronomer,
      he has an excellent telescope, with which he lies upon the roof
      of his own house and sweeps the moor all day in the hope of
      catching a glimpse of the escaped convict. If he would confine
      his energies to this all would be well, but there are rumours
      that he intends to prosecute Dr. Mortimer for opening a grave
      without the consent of the next of kin because he dug up the
      Neolithic skull in the barrow on Long Down. He helps to keep our
      lives from being monotonous and gives a little comic relief where
      it is badly needed.