      “Not guilty, my lord,” said I.       “_Vox populi, vox Dei_. You are acquitted, Captain Crocker. So
      long as the law does not find some other victim you are safe from
      me. Come back to this lady in a year, and may her future and
      yours justify us in the judgment which we have pronounced this
      night!” THE ADVENTURE OF THE SECOND STAIN       I had intended “The Adventure of the Abbey Grange” to be the last
      of those exploits of my friend, Mr. Sherlock Holmes, which I
      should ever communicate to the public. This resolution of mine
      was not due to any lack of material, since I have notes of many
      hundreds of cases to which I have never alluded, nor was it
      caused by any waning interest on the part of my readers in the
      singular personality and unique methods of this remarkable man.
      The real reason lay in the reluctance which Mr. Holmes has shown
      to the continued publication of his experiences. So long as he
      was in actual professional practice the records of his successes
      were of some practical value to him, but since he has definitely
      retired from London and betaken himself to study and bee-farming
      on the Sussex Downs, notoriety has become hateful to him, and he
      has peremptorily requested that his wishes in this matter should
      be strictly observed. It was only upon my representing to him
      that I had given a promise that “The Adventure of the Second
      Stain” should be published when the times were ripe, and pointing
      out to him that it is only appropriate that this long series of
      episodes should culminate in the most important international
      case which he has ever been called upon to handle, that I at last
      succeeded in obtaining his consent that a carefully guarded
      account of the incident should at last be laid before the public.
      If in telling the story I seem to be somewhat vague in certain
      details, the public will readily understand that there is an
      excellent reason for my reticence.