Having disengaged itself from grosser matter, what happens to this
spirit body, the precious bark which bears our all in all upon this
voyage into unknown seas?  Very many accounts have come back to us,
verbal and written, detailing the experiences of those who have passed
on.  The verbal are by trance mediums, whose utterances appear to be
controlled by outside intelligences.  The written from automatic
writers whose script is produced in the same way.  At these words the
critic naturally and reasonably shies, with a "What nonsense!  How can
you control the statement of this medium who is consciously or
unconsciously pretending to inspiration?"  This is a healthy
scepticism, and should animate every experimenter who tests a new
medium.  The proofs must lie in the communication itself.  If they are
not present, then, as always, we must accept natural rather than
unknown explanations.  But they are continually present, and in such
obvious forms that no one can deny them.  There is a certain
professional medium to whom I have sent many, mothers who were in need
of consolation.  I always ask the applicants to report the result to
me, and I have their letters of surprise and gratitude before me as I
write.  "Thank you for this beautiful and interesting experience.  She
did not make a single mistake about their names, and everything she
said was correct."  In this case there was a rift between husband and
wife before death, but the medium was able, unaided, to explain and
clear up the whole matter, mentioning the correct circumstances, and
names of everyone concerned, and showing the reasons for the
non-arrival of certain letters, which had been the cause of the
misunderstanding.  The next case was also one of husband and wife, but
it is the husband who is the survivor.  He says:  "It was a most
successful sitting.  Among other things, I addressed a remark in Danish
to my wife (who is a Danish girl), and the answer came back in English
without the least hesitation."  The next case was again of a man who
had lost a very dear male friend.  "I have had the most wonderful
results with Mrs. ---- to-day.  I cannot tell you the joy it has been
to me.  Many grateful thanks for your help."  The next one says:  "Mrs.
---- was simply wonderful.  If only more people knew, what agony they
would be spared."  In this case the wife got in touch with the husband,
and the medium mentioned correctly five dead relatives who were in his
company.  The next is a case of mother and son.  "I saw Mrs. ----
to-day, and obtained very wonderful results.  She told me nearly
everything quite correctly--a very few mistakes."  The next is similar.
"We were quite successful.  My boy even reminded me of something that
only he and I knew."  Says another:  "My boy reminded me of the day
when he sowed turnip seed upon the lawn.  Only he could have known of
this."  These are fair samples of the letters, of which I hold a large
number.  They are from people who present themselves from among the
millions living in London, or the provinces, and about whose affairs
the medium had no possible normal way of knowing.  Of all the very
numerous cases which I have sent to this medium I have only had a few
which have been complete failures.  On quoting my results to Sir Oliver
Lodge, he remarked that his own experience with another medium had been
almost identical.  It is no exaggeration to say that our British
telephone systems would probably give a larger proportion of useless
calls.  How is any critic to get beyond these facts save by ignoring or
misrepresenting them?  Healthy, scepticism is the basis of all accurate
observation, but there comes a time when incredulity means either
culpable ignorance or else imbecility, and this time has been long past
in the matter of spirit intercourse.