That the heavy losses caused us by the war were borne without a murmur
is surely evidence enough how deep was the conviction of the nation that
the war was not only just but essential--that the possession of South
Africa and the unity of the Empire were at stake. Could it be shown, or
were it even remotely possible, that ministers had incurred so immense a
responsibility and entailed such tremendous sacrifices upon their people
without adequate cause, is it not certain that, the task once done, an
explosion of rage from the deceived and the bereaved would have driven
them for ever from public life? Among high and low, in England, in
Scotland, in Ireland, in the great Colonies, how many high hopes
had been crushed, how often the soldier son had gone forth and never
returned, or come back maimed and stricken in the pride of his youth.
Everywhere was the voice of pity and sorrow, but nowhere that of
reproach. The deepest instincts of the nation told it that it must fight
and win, or for ever abdicate its position in the world. Through dark
days which brought out the virtues of our race as nothing has done in
our generation, we struggled grimly on until the light had fully broken
once again. And of all gifts that God has given to Britain there is none
to compare with those days of sorrow, for it was in them that the
nation was assured of its unity, and learned for all time that blood is
stronger to bind than salt water is to part. The only difference in the
point of view of the Briton from Britain and the Briton from the ends
of the earth, was that the latter with the energy of youth was more
whole-souled in the Imperial cause. Who has seen that Army and can
forget it--its spirit, its picturesqueness--above all, what it stands
for in the future history of the world? Cowboys from the vast plains of
the North-West, gentlemen who ride hard with the Quorn or the Belvoir,
gillies from the Sutherland deer-forests, bushmen from the back blocks
of Australia, exquisites of the Raleigh Club or the Bachelor's, hard men
from Ontario, dandy sportsmen from India and Ceylon, the horsemen of New
Zealand, the wiry South African irregulars--these are the Reserves whose
existence was chronicled in no Blue-book, and whose appearance came as a
shock to the pedant soldiers of the Continent who had sneered so long
at our little Army, since long years of peace have caused them to forget
its exploits. On the plains of South Africa, in common danger and in
common privation, the blood brotherhood of the Empire was sealed.