I could hear the murmur of our brook somewhere ahead of me, but there
was a tangle of trees and brushwood between me and it.  I was making my
way through this at a point which was just out of sight of my
companions, when, under one of the trees, I noticed something red
huddled among the bushes.  As I approached it, I was shocked to see
that it was the dead body of the missing Indian.  He lay upon his side,
his limbs drawn up, and his head screwed round at a most unnatural
angle, so that he seemed to be looking straight over his own shoulder.
I gave a cry to warn my friends that something was amiss, and running
forwards I stooped over the body.  Surely my guardian angel was very
near me then, for some instinct of fear, or it may have been some faint
rustle of leaves, made me glance upwards.  Out of the thick green
foliage which hung low over my head, two long muscular arms covered
with reddish hair were slowly descending.  Another instant and the
great stealthy hands would have been round my throat.  I sprang
backwards, but quick as I was, those hands were quicker still.  Through
my sudden spring they missed a fatal grip, but one of them caught the
back of my neck and the other one my face.  I threw my hands up to
protect my throat, and the next moment the huge paw had slid down my
face and closed over them.  I was lifted lightly from the ground, and I
felt an intolerable pressure forcing my head back and back until the
strain upon the cervical spine was more than I could bear.  My senses
swam, but I still tore at the hand and forced it out from my chin.
Looking up I saw a frightful face with cold inexorable light blue eyes
looking down into mine.  There was something hypnotic in those terrible
eyes.  I could struggle no longer.  As the creature felt me grow limp
in his grasp, two white canines gleamed for a moment at each side of
the vile mouth, and the grip tightened still more upon my chin, forcing
it always upwards and back.  A thin, oval-tinted mist formed before my
eyes and little silvery bells tinkled in my ears.  Dully and far off I
heard the crack of a rifle and was feebly aware of the shock as I was
dropped to the earth, where I lay without sense or motion.