      Sherlock Holmes was not disappointed in his expectations. Two
      days later he received a bulky envelope, which contained a short
      note from the detective, and a typewritten document, which
      covered several pages of foolscap.       “Lestrade has got him all right,” said Holmes, glancing up at me.
      “Perhaps it would interest you to hear what he says.       “My dear Mr. Holmes,—In accordance with the scheme which we had
      formed in order to test our theories”—“the ‘we’ is rather fine,
      Watson, is it not?”—“I went down to the Albert Dock yesterday at
      6 P.M., and boarded the S.S. _May Day_, belonging to the
      Liverpool, Dublin, and London Steam Packet Company. On inquiry, I
      found that there was a steward on board of the name of James
      Browner and that he had acted during the voyage in such an
      extraordinary manner that the captain had been compelled to
      relieve him of his duties. On descending to his berth, I found
      him seated upon a chest with his head sunk upon his hands,
      rocking himself to and fro. He is a big, powerful chap,
      clean-shaven, and very swarthy— something like Aldridge, who
      helped us in the bogus laundry affair. He jumped up when he heard
      my business, and I had my whistle to my lips to call a couple of
      river police, who were round the corner, but he seemed to have no
      heart in him, and he held out his hands quietly enough for the
      darbies. We brought him along to the cells, and his box as well,
      for we thought there might be something incriminating; but, bar a
      big sharp knife such as most sailors have, we got nothing for our
      trouble. However, we find that we shall want no more evidence,
      for on being brought before the inspector at the station he asked
      leave to make a statement, which was, of course, taken down, just
      as he made it, by our shorthand man. We had three copies
      typewritten, one of which I enclose. The affair proves, as I
      always thought it would, to be an extremely simple one, but I am
      obliged to you for assisting me in my investigation. With kind
      regards, yours very truly,—G. Lestrade.”