I am thyne, my deare childe, for ever.’ 
Note K.--Lord Grey and the Horse at Sedgemoor. It is only fair to state that Ferguson is held by many to have been
as doughty a soldier as he was zealous in religion. His own account of
Sedgemoor is interesting, as showing what was thought by those who were
actually engaged on the causes of their failure. ‘Now besides these two troops, whose officers though they had no great
skill yet had courage enough to have done something honourably, had they
not for want of a guide met with the aforesaid obstruction, there was
no one of all the rest of our troops that ever advanced to charge or
approached as near to the enemy as to give or receive a wound. Mr.
Hacker, one of our captains, came no sooner within view of their camp
than he villainously fired a pistol to give them notice of our approach,
and then forsook his charge and rode oft with all the speed he could, to
take the benefit of a proclamation emitted by the King, offering pardon
to all such as should return home within such a time. And this he
pleaded at his tryal, but was answered by Jeffreys “that he above all
other men deserved to be hanged, and that for his treachery to Monmouth
as well as his treason to the King.” And though no other of our officers
acted so villainously, yet they were useless and unserviceable, as never
once attempting to charge, nor so much as keeping their men in a body.
And I dare affirm that if our horse had never fired a pistol, but only
stood in a posture to have given jealousy and apprehension to the enemy,
our foot alone would have carried the day and been triumphant. But our
horse standing scattered and disunited, and flying upon every approach
of a squadron of theirs, commanded by Oglethorpe, gave that body of
their cavalry an advantage, after they had hovered up and down in the
field without thinking it necessary to attack those whom their own fears
had dispersed, to fall in at last in the rear of our battalions, and to
wrest that victory out of their hands which they were grasping at, and
stood almost possessed of. Nor was that party of their horse above
three hundred at most, whereas we had more than enough had they had any
courage, and been commanded by a gallant man, to have attacked them
with ease both in front and flank. These things I can declare with
more certainty, because I was a doleful spectator of them; for having
contrary to my custom left attending upon the Duke, who advanced with
the foot, I betook myself to the horse, because the first of that
morning’s action was expected from them, which was to break in and
disorder the enemy’s camp. Against the time that our battalions should
come up, I endeavoured whatsoever I was capable of performing, for I
not only struck at several troopers who had forsaken their station, but
upbraided divers of the captains for being wanting in their duty. But I
spoke with great warmth to my Lord Grey, and conjured him to charge, and
not suffer the victory, which our foot had in a manner taken hold of,
to be ravished from us. But instead of hearkening, he not only as an
unworthy man and cowardly poltroon deserted that part of the field and
forsook his command, but rode with the utmost speed to the Duke, telling
him that all was lost and it was more than time to shift for himself.
Wherebye, as an addition to all the mischief he had been the occasion
of before, he drew the easy and unfortunate gentleman to leave the
battalions while they were courageously disputing on which side the
victory should fall. And this fell most unhappily out, while a certain
person was endeavouring to find out the Duke to have begged of him to
come and charge at the head of his own troops. However, this I dare
affirm, that if the Duke had been but master of two hundred horse,
well mounted, completely armed, personally valiant, and commanded
by experienced officers, they would have been victorious. This is
acknowledged by our enemies, who have often confessed they were ready
to fly through the impressions made upon them by our foot, and must have
been beaten had our horse done their part, and not tamely looked on
till their cavalry retrieved the day by falling into the rear of our
battalions. Nor was the fault in the private men, who had courage
to have followed their leaders, but it was in those who led them,
particularly my Lord Grey, in whom, if cowardice may be called
treachery, we may safely charge him with betraying our cause.’