      “Stop her!” cried Holmes. He had bounded across the room and had
      wrenched a small phial from her hand.       “Too late!” she said, sinking back on the bed. “Too late! I took
      the poison before I left my hiding-place. My head swims! I am
      going! I charge you, sir, to remember the packet.”       “A simple case, and yet, in some ways, an instructive one,”
      Holmes remarked, as we travelled back to town. “It hinged from
      the outset upon the pince-nez. But for the fortunate chance of
      the dying man having seized these, I am not sure that we could
      ever have reached our solution. It was clear to me, from the
      strength of the glasses, that the wearer must have been very
      blind and helpless when deprived of them. When you asked me to
      believe that she walked along a narrow strip of grass without
      once making a false step, I remarked, as you may remember, that
      it was a noteworthy performance. In my mind I set it down as an
      impossible performance, save in the unlikely case that she had a
      second pair of glasses. I was forced, therefore, to consider
      seriously the hypothesis that she had remained within the house.
      On perceiving the similarity of the two corridors, it became
      clear that she might very easily have made such a mistake, and,
      in that case, it was evident that she must have entered the
      professor’s room. I was keenly on the alert, therefore, for
      whatever would bear out this supposition, and I examined the room
      narrowly for anything in the shape of a hiding-place. The carpet
      seemed continuous and firmly nailed, so I dismissed the idea of a
      trap-door. There might well be a recess behind the books. As you
      are aware, such devices are common in old libraries. I observed
      that books were piled on the floor at all other points, but that
      one bookcase was left clear. This, then, might be the door. I
      could see no marks to guide me, but the carpet was of a dun
      colour, which lends itself very well to examination. I therefore
      smoked a great number of those excellent cigarettes, and I
      dropped the ash all over the space in front of the suspected
      bookcase. It was a simple trick, but exceedingly effective. I
      then went downstairs, and I ascertained, in your presence,
      Watson, without your perceiving the drift of my remarks, that
      Professor Coram’s consumption of food had increased—as one would
      expect when he is supplying a second person. We then ascended to
      the room again, when, by upsetting the cigarette-box, I obtained
      a very excellent view of the floor, and was able to see quite
      clearly, from the traces upon the cigarette ash, that the
      prisoner had in our absence come out from her retreat. Well,
      Hopkins, here we are at Charing Cross, and I congratulate you on
      having brought your case to a successful conclusion. You are
      going to headquarters, no doubt. I think, Watson, you and I will
      drive together to the Russian Embassy.”