      And this was the singular case of the Grecian Interpreter, the
      explanation of which is still involved in some mystery. We were
      able to find out, by communicating with the gentleman who had
      answered the advertisement, that the unfortunate young lady came
      of a wealthy Grecian family, and that she had been on a visit to
      some friends in England. While there she had met a young man
      named Harold Latimer, who had acquired an ascendancy over her and
      had eventually persuaded her to fly with him. Her friends,
      shocked at the event, had contented themselves with informing her
      brother at Athens, and had then washed their hands of the matter.
      The brother, on his arrival in England, had imprudently placed
      himself in the power of Latimer and of his associate, whose name
      was Wilson Kemp—a man of the foulest antecedents. These two,
      finding that through his ignorance of the language he was
      helpless in their hands, had kept him a prisoner, and had
      endeavoured by cruelty and starvation to make him sign away his
      own and his sister’s property. They had kept him in the house
      without the girl’s knowledge, and the plaster over the face had
      been for the purpose of making recognition difficult in case she
      should ever catch a glimpse of him. Her feminine perception,
      however, had instantly seen through the disguise when, on the
      occasion of the interpreter’s visit, she had seen him for the
      first time. The poor girl, however, was herself a prisoner, for
      there was no one about the house except the man who acted as
      coachman, and his wife, both of whom were tools of the
      conspirators. Finding that their secret was out, and that their
      prisoner was not to be coerced, the two villains with the girl
      had fled away at a few hours’ notice from the furnished house
      which they had hired, having first, as they thought, taken
      vengeance both upon the man who had defied and the one who had
      betrayed them.