  "There's Cribb, the Champion of England, and perhaps the best
  man in England; there he is, with his huge, massive figure,
  and face wonderfully like that of a lion. There is Belcher,
  the younger, not the mighty one, who is gone to his place,
  but the Teucer Belcher, the most scientific pugilist that
  ever entered a ring, only wanting strength to be I won't say
  what. He appears to walk before me now, as he did that
  evening, with his white hat, white great coat, thin genteel
  figure, springy step, and keen determined eye. Crosses him,
  what a contrast! Grim, savage Shelton, who has a civil word
  for nobody, and a hard blow for anybody. Hard! One blow
  given with the proper play of his athletic arm will unsense
  a giant. Yonder individual, who strolls about with his hands
  behind him, supporting his brown coat lappets, undersized,
  and who looks anything but what he is, is the king of the
  light-weights, so-called--Randall! The terrible Randall,
  who has Irish blood in his veins; not the better for that,
  nor the worse; and not far from him is his last antagonist,
  Ned Turner, who, though beaten by him, still thinks himself
  as good a man, in which he is, perhaps, right, for it was
  a near thing. But how shall I name them all? They were
  there by dozens, and all tremendous in their way. There
  was Bulldog Hudson, and fearless Scroggins, who beat the
  conqueror of Sam the Jew. There was Black Richmond--no,
  he was not there, but I knew him well; he was the most
  dangerous of blacks, even with a broken thigh. There was
  Purcell, who could never conquer until all seemed over with
  him. There was--what! shall I name thee last? Ay, why not?
  I believe that thou art the last of all that strong family
  still above the sod, where mayst thou long continue--true
  piece of English stuff--Tom of Bedford. Hail to thee, Tom
  of Bedford, or by whatever name it may please thee to be
  called, Spring or Winter! Hail to thee, six-foot Englishman
  of the brown eye, worthy to have carried a six-foot bow at
  Flodden, where England's yeomen triumphed over Scotland's
  King, his clans and chivalry. Hail to thee, last of English
  bruisers, after all the many victories which thou hast
  achieved--true English victories, unbought by yellow gold."