‘Hush!’ cried Saxon, as we all gave a cry of horror and execration;
‘do not dishearten our brave lads! Cowardice is catching and will run
through an army like the putrid fever.’ ‘Der Feigherzige!’ cried Buyse, grinding his teeth. ‘And the brave
country folk! It is too much.’ ‘Stand to your pikes, men!’ roared Saxon, in a voice of thunder, and
we had scarce time to form our square and throw ourselves inside of it,
before the whirlwind of horse was upon us once more. When the Taunton
men had joined us a weak spot had been left in our ranks, and through
this in an instant the Blue Guards smashed their way, pouring through
the opening, and cutting fiercely to right and left. The burghers on the
one side and our own men on the other replied by savage stabs from their
pikes and scythes, which emptied many a saddle, but while the struggle
was at its hottest the King’s cannon opened for the first time with a
deafening roar upon the other side of the rhine, and a storm of balls
ploughed their way through our dense ranks, leaving furrows of dead
and wounded behind them. At the same moment a great cry of ‘Powder! For
Christ’s sake, powder!’ arose from the musqueteers whose last charge had
been fired. Again the cannon roared, and again our men were mowed down
as though Death himself with his scythe were amongst us. At last our
ranks were breaking. In the very centre of the pikemen steel caps were
gleaming, and broadswords rising and falling. The whole body was swept
back two hundred paces or more, struggling furiously the while, and
was there mixed with other like bodies which had been dashed out of all
semblance of military order, and yet refused to fly. Men of Devon, of
Dorset, of Wiltshire, and of Somerset, trodden down by horse, slashed by
dragoons, dropping by scores under the rain of bullets, still fought on
with a dogged, desperate courage for a ruined cause and a man who
had deserted them. Everywhere as I glanced around me were set faces,
clenched teeth, yells of rage and defiance, but never a sound of fear
or of submission. Some clambered up upon the cruppers of the riders and
dragged them backwards from their saddles. Others lay upon their faces
and hamstrung the chargers with their scythe-blades, stabbing the
horsemen before they could disengage themselves. Again and again the
guards crashed through them from side to side, and yet the shattered
ranks closed up behind them and continued the long-drawn struggle. So
hopeless was it and so pitiable that I could have found it in my heart
to wish that they would break and fly, were it not that on the broad
moor there was no refuge which they could make for. And all this time,
while they struggled and fought, blackened with powder and parched with
thirst, spilling their blood as though it were water, the man who called
himself their King was spurring over the countryside with a loose rein
and a quaking heart, his thoughts centred upon saving his own neck, come
what might to his gallant followers.