From time to time as they advanced they saw strange lean figures
scraping and scratching amid the weeds and thistles, who, on sight
of the band of horsemen, threw up their arms and dived in among the
brushwood, as shy and as swift as wild animals. More than once, however,
they came on families by the wayside, who were too weak from hunger and
disease to fly, so that they could but sit like hares on a tussock, with
panting chests and terror in their eyes. So gaunt were these poor folk,
so worn and spent--with bent and knotted frames, and sullen, hopeless,
mutinous faces--that it made the young Englishman heart-sick to look
upon them. Indeed, it seemed as though all hope and light had gone so
far from them that it was not to be brought back; for when Sir Nigel
threw down a handful of silver among them there came no softening of
their lined faces, but they clutched greedily at the coins, peering
questioningly at him, and champing with their animal jaws. Here and
there amid the brushwood the travellers saw the rude bundle of
sticks which served them as a home--more like a fowl's nest than the
dwelling-place of man. Yet why should they build and strive, when the
first adventurer who passed would set torch to their thatch, and when
their own feudal lord would wring from them with blows and curses the
last fruits of their toil? They sat at the lowest depth of human misery,
and hugged a bitter comfort to their souls as they realized that they
could go no lower. Yet they had still the human gift of speech, and
would take council among themselves in their brushwood hovels, glaring
with bleared eyes and pointing with thin fingers at the great widespread
chateaux which ate like a cancer into the life of the country-side. When
such men, who are beyond hope and fear, begin in their dim minds to see
the source of their woes, it may be an evil time for those who have wronged
them. The weak man becomes strong when he has nothing, for then only can
he feel the wild, mad thrill of despair. High and strong the chateaux,
lowly and weak the brushwood hut; but God help the seigneur and his lady
when the men of the brushwood set their hands to the work of revenge!