      “You can imagine the state of things here when they were roused
      from their beds by the doctor’s ringing and found me in this
      condition. Poor Annie here and my mother were broken-hearted. Dr.
      Ferrier had just heard enough from the detective at the station
      to be able to give an idea of what had happened, and his story
      did not mend matters. It was evident to all that I was in for a
      long illness, so Joseph was bundled out of this cheery bedroom,
      and it was turned into a sick-room for me. Here I have lain, Mr.
      Holmes, for over nine weeks, unconscious, and raving with
      brain-fever. If it had not been for Miss Harrison here and for
      the doctor’s care I should not be speaking to you now. She has
      nursed me by day and a hired nurse has looked after me by night,
      for in my mad fits I was capable of anything. Slowly my reason
      has cleared, but it is only during the last three days that my
      memory has quite returned. Sometimes I wish that it never had.
      The first thing that I did was to wire to Mr. Forbes, who had the
      case in hand. He came out, and assures me that, though everything
      has been done, no trace of a clue has been discovered. The
      commissionnaire and his wife have been examined in every way
      without any light being thrown upon the matter. The suspicions of
      the police then rested upon young Gorot, who, as you may
      remember, stayed over time in the office that night. His
      remaining behind and his French name were really the only two
      points which could suggest suspicion; but, as a matter of fact, I
      did not begin work until he had gone, and his people are of
      Huguenot extraction, but as English in sympathy and tradition as
      you and I are. Nothing was found to implicate him in any way, and
      there the matter dropped. I turn to you, Mr. Holmes, as
      absolutely my last hope. If you fail me, then my honour as well
      as my position are forever forfeited.”