In a previous section of this essay, I have remarked that no
philosophical explanation of these phenomena, known as spiritual, could
be conceived which did not show that all, however different in their
working, came from the same central source.  St. Paul seems to state
this in so many words when he says:  "But all these worketh that one
and the selfsame spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will."
Could our modern speculation, forced upon us by the facts, be more
tersely stated?  He has just enumerated the various gifts, and we find
them very close to those of which we have experience.  There is first
"the word of wisdom," "the word of knowledge" and "faith."  All these
taken in connection with the Spirit would seem to mean the higher
communications from the other side.  Then comes healing, which is still
practised in certain conditions by a highly virile medium, who has the
power of discharging strength, losing just as much as the weakling
gains, as instanced by Christ when He said:  "Who has touched me?  Much
virtue" (or power) "has gone out of me." Then we come upon the working
of miracles, which we should call the production of phenomena, and
which would cover many different types, such as apports, where objects
are brought from a distance, levitation of objects or of the human
frame into the air, the production of lights and other wonders.  Then
comes prophecy, which is a real and yet a fitful and often delusive
form of mediumship--never so delusive as among the early Christians,
who seem all to have mistaken the approaching fall of Jerusalem and the
destruction of the Temple, which they could dimly see, as being the end
of the world.  This mistake is repeated so often and so clearly that it
is really not honest to ignore or deny it.  Then we come to the power
of "discerning the spirits," which corresponds to our clairvoyance, and
finally that curious and usually useless gift of tongues, which is also
a modern phenomenon.  I can remember that some time ago I read the
book, "I Heard a Voice," by an eminent barrister, in which he describes
how his young daughter began to write Greek fluently with all the
complex accents in their correct places.  Just after I read it I
received a letter from a no less famous physician, who asked my opinion
about one of his children who had written a considerable amount of
script in mediaeval French.  These two recent cases are beyond all
doubt, but I have not had convincing evidence of the case where some
unintelligible signs drawn by an unlettered man were pronounced by an
expert to be in the Ogham or early Celtic character.  As the Ogham
script is really a combination of straight lines, the latter case may
be taken with considerable reserve.