"How did it happen? Why, simply enough. As the candles went over, the
chloroformist had stopped for an instant and had tried to catch them.
The patient, just as the light went out, had rolled off and under the
table. Poor M'Namara, clinging frantically to him, had been dragged
across it, and the chloroformist, feeling him there, had naturally
clapped the towel across his mouth and nose. The others had secured him,
and the more he roared and kicked the more they drenched him with
chloroform. Walker was very nice about it, and made the most handsome
apologies. He offered to do a plastic on the spot, and make as good an
ear as he could, but M'Namara had had enough of it. As to the patient,
we found him sleeping placidly under the table, with the ends of the
blanket screening him on both sides. Walker sent M'Namara round his ear
next day in a jar of methylated spirit, but Mac's wife was very angry
about it, and it led to a good deal of ill-feeling. Some people say
that the more one has to do with human nature, and the closer one is
brought in contact with it, the less one thinks of it. I don't believe
that those who know most would uphold that view. My own experience is
dead against it. I was brought up in the miserable-mortal-clay school of
theology, and yet here I am, after thirty years of intimate acquaintance
with humanity, filled with respect for it. The evil lies commonly upon
the surface. The deeper strata are good. A hundred times I have seen
folk condemned to death as suddenly as poor Walker was. Sometimes it was
to blindness or to mutilations which are worse than death. Men and
women, they almost all took it beautifully, and some with such lovely
unselfishness, and with such complete absorption in the thought of how
their fate would affect others, that the man about town, or the
frivolously-dressed woman had seemed to change into an angel before my
eyes. I have seen death-beds, too, of all ages and of all creeds and
want of creeds. I never saw any of them shrink, save only one poor,
imaginative young fellow, who had spent his blameless life in the
strictest of sects. Of course, an exhausted frame is incapable of fear,
as any one can vouch who is told, in the midst of his seasickness, that
the ship is going to the bottom. That is why I rate courage in the face
of mutilation to be higher than courage when a wasting illness is fining
away into death.