      MURDER IN WESTMINSTER       A crime of mysterious character was committed last night at 16,
      Godolphin Street, one of the old-fashioned and secluded rows of
      eighteenth century houses which lie between the river and the
      Abbey, almost in the shadow of the great Tower of the Houses of
      Parliament. This small but select mansion has been inhabited for
      some years by Mr. Eduardo Lucas, well-known in society circles
      both on account of his charming personality and because he has
      the well-deserved reputation of being one of the best amateur
      tenors in the country. Mr. Lucas is an unmarried man, thirty-four
      years of age, and his establishment consists of Mrs. Pringle, an
      elderly housekeeper, and of Mitton, his valet. The former retires
      early and sleeps at the top of the house. The valet was out for
      the evening, visiting a friend at Hammersmith. From ten o’clock
      onward Mr. Lucas had the house to himself. What occurred during
      that time has not yet transpired, but at a quarter to twelve
      Police-constable Barrett, passing along Godolphin Street observed
      that the door of No. 16 was ajar. He knocked, but received no
      answer. Perceiving a light in the front room, he advanced into
      the passage and again knocked, but without reply. He then pushed
      open the door and entered. The room was in a state of wild
      disorder, the furniture being all swept to one side, and one
      chair lying on its back in the centre. Beside this chair, and
      still grasping one of its legs, lay the unfortunate tenant of the
      house. He had been stabbed to the heart and must have died
      instantly. The knife with which the crime had been committed was
      a curved Indian dagger, plucked down from a trophy of Oriental
      arms which adorned one of the walls. Robbery does not appear to
      have been the motive of the crime, for there had been no attempt
      to remove the valuable contents of the room. Mr. Eduardo Lucas
      was so well-known and popular that his violent and mysterious
      fate will arouse painful interest and intense sympathy in a
      widespread circle of friends.