What noble books of their class are those last, "Kidnapped" and
"Treasure Island"! both, as you see, shining forth upon my lower
shelf. "Treasure Island" is the better story, while I could imagine
that "Kidnapped" might have the more permanent value as being an
excellent and graphic sketch of the state of the Highlands after the
last Jacobite insurrection. Each contains one novel and admirable
character, Alan Breck in the one, and Long John in the other.
Surely John Silver, with his face the size of a ham, and his little
gleaming eyes like crumbs of glass in the centre of it, is the king
of all seafaring desperadoes. Observe how the strong effect is
produced in his case: seldom by direct assertion on the part of
the story-teller, but usually by comparison, innuendo, or indirect
reference. The objectionable Billy Bones is haunted by the dread of
"a seafaring man with one leg." Captain Flint, we are told, was a
brave man; "he was afraid of none, not he, only Silver--Silver was
that genteel." Or, again, where John himself says, "there was some
that was feared of Pew, and some that was feared of Flint; but Flint
his own self was feared of me. Feared he was, and proud. They was
the roughest crew afloat was Flint's. The devil himself would have
been feared to go to sea with them. Well, now, I will tell you. I'm
not a boasting man, and you seen yourself how easy I keep company;
but when I was quartermaster, lambs wasn't the word for Flint's old
buccaneers." So, by a touch here and a hint there, there grows upon
us the individuality of the smooth-tongued, ruthless, masterful,
one-legged devil. He is to us not a creation of fiction, but an
organic living reality with whom we have come in contact; such is
the effect of the fine suggestive strokes with which he is drawn.
And the buccaneers themselves, how simple and yet how effective are
the little touches which indicate their ways of thinking and of
acting. "I want to go in that cabin, I do; I want their pickles and
wine and that." "Now, if you had sailed along o' Bill you wouldn't
have stood there to be spoke twice--not you. That was never Bill's
way, not the way of sich as sailed with him." Scott's buccaneers in
"The Pirate" are admirable, but they lack something human which we
find here. It will be long before John Silver loses his place in
sea fiction, "and you may lay to that."