Hamilton had planned a drive to cover the southern portion of De la
Rey's country, and for this purpose, with Hartebeestefontein for his
centre, he was manoeuvring his columns so as to swing them into line
and then sweep back towards Klerksdorp. Kekewich, Rawlinson, and Walter
Kitchener were all manoeuvring for this purpose. The Boers, however,
game to the last, although they were aware that their leaders had
gone in to treat, and that peace was probably due within a few days,
determined to have one last gallant fall with a British column. The
forces of Kekewich were the farthest to the westward, and also, as the
burghers thought, the most isolated, and it was upon them, accordingly,
that the attack was made. In the morning of April 11th, at a place
called Rooiwal, the enemy, who had moved up from Wolmaranstad, nineteen
hundred strong, under Kemp and Vermaas, fell with the utmost impetuosity
upon the British column. There was no preliminary skirmishing, and
a single gallant charge by 1500 Boers both opened and ended the
engagement. 'I was just saying to the staff officer that there were no
Boers within twenty miles,' says one who was present, 'when we heard a
roar of musketry and saw a lot of men galloping down on us.' The British
were surprised but not shaken by this unexpected apparition. 'I never
saw a more splendid attack. They kept a distinct line,' says the
eye-witness. Another spectator says, 'They came on in one long line four
deep and knee to knee.' It was an old-fashioned cavalry charge, and
the fact that it got as far as it did shows that we have over rated the
stopping power of modern rifles. They came for a good five hundred yards
under direct fire, and were only turned within a hundred of the British
line. The Yeomanry, the Scottish Horse, and the Constabulary poured a
steady fire upon the advancing wave of horsemen, and the guns opened
with case at two hundred yards. The Boers were stopped, staggered, and
turned. Their fire, or rather the covering fire of those who had not
joined in the charge, had caused some fifty casualties, but their own
losses were very much more severe. The fierce Potgieter fell just in
front of the British guns. 'Thank goodness he is dead!' cried one of
his wounded burghers, 'for he sjamboked me into the firing line this
morning.' Fifty dead and a great number of wounded were left upon the
field of battle. Rawlinson's column came up on Kekewich's left, and the
Boer flight became a rout, for they were chased for twenty miles,
and their two guns were captured. It was a brisk and decisive little
engagement, and it closed the Western campaign, leaving the last trick,
as well as the game, to the credit of the British. From this time until
the end there was a gleaning of prisoners but little fighting in De
la Rey's country, the most noteworthy event being a surprise visit to
Schweizer-Renecke by Rochfort, by which some sixty prisoners were taken,
and afterwards the drive of Ian Hamilton's forces against the Mafeking
railway line by which no fewer than 364 prisoners were secured. In
this difficult and well-managed operation the gaps between the British
columns were concealed by the lighting of long veld-fires and the
discharge of rifles by scattered scouts. The newly arrived Australian
Commonwealth Regiments gave a brilliant start to the military history
of their united country by the energy of their marching and the
thoroughness of their entrenching.