
        

            Another Fine Myth
        

        

            

                Chapter One
            

            
                There are things on heaven and earth, Horatio, Man was not meant to know.
                Hamlet
            
            ONE
          of the few redeeming facets of instructors, I thought, is that
          occasionally they can be fooled. It was true when my mother taught me
          to read, it was true when my father tried to teach me to be a farmer,
          and it's true now when I'm learning magik.
            "You
          haven't been practicing!" Garkin's harsh admonishment
          interrupted my musings.
            "I
          have too!" I protested. "It's just a difficult exercise."
            As
          if in response, the feather I was levitating began to tremble and
          wobble in midair.
            "You
          aren't concentrating!" he accused.
            "It's
          the wind," I argued. I wanted to add "from your loud
          mouth," but didn't dare. Early in our lessons Garkin had
          demonstrated his lack of appreciation for cheeky apprentices.
            "The
          wind," he sneered, mimicking my voice. "Like this, dolt!"
            My
          mental contact with the object of my concentration was interrupted as
          the feather darted suddenly toward the ceiling. It jarred to a halt
          as if it had become embedded in something, though it was still a foot
          from the wooden beams, then slowly rotated to a horizontal plane.
          Just as slowly it rotated on its axis, then swapped ends and began to
          glide around an invisible circle like a leaf caught in an eddy.
            I
          risked a glance at Garkin. He was draped over his chair, feet
          dangling, his entire attention apparently devoted to devouring a leg
          of roast lizard-bird, a bird I had snared I might add. Concentration
          indeed!
            He
          looked up suddenly and our eyes met. It was too late to look away so
          I simply looked back at him.
            "Hungry?"
          His grease-flecked salt and pepper beard was suddenly framing a
          wolfish grin. "Then show me how much you've been practicing."
            It
          took me a heartbeat to realize what he meant; then I looked up
          desperately. The feather was tumbling floor ward, a bare
          shoulder-height from landing. Forcing the sudden tension from my
          body, I reached out with my mind… gently… form a
          pillow… don't knock it away…
            The
          feather halted a scant two hand-spans from the floor.
            I
          heard Garkin's low chuckle, but didn't allow it to break my
          concentration. I hadn't let the feather touch the floor for three
          years, and it wasn't going to touch now.
            Slowly
          I raised it until it floated at eye level. Wrapping my mind around
          it, I rotated it on its axis, then enticed it to swap ends. As I led
          it through the exercise, its movement was not as smooth or sure as
          when Garkin set his mind to the task, but it did move unerringly in
          its assigned course.
            Although
          I had not been practicing with the feather, I had been practicing.
          When Garkin was not about or preoccupied with his own studies, I
          devoted most of my time to levitating pieces of metal-keys, to be
          specific. Each type of levitation had its own inherent problems.
          Metal was hard to work with because it was an inert material. The
          feather, having once been part of a living thing, was more
          responsive… too responsive. To lift metal took effort, to
          maneuver a feather required subtlety.
          Of the two, I preferred to work with metal. I could see a more direct
          application of that skill in my chosen profession.
            "Good
          enough, lad. Now put it back in the book."
            I
          smiled to myself. This part I had practiced, not because of its
          potential applications, but because it was fun.
            The
          book was lying open on the end of the work-bench. I brought the
          feather down in a long lazy spiral, allowing it to pass lightly
          across the pages of the book and up in a swooping arc, stopped it,
          and brought it back. As it approached the book the second time, I
          disengaged part of my mind to dart ahead to the book. As the feather
          crossed the pages, the book snapped shut like the jaws of a hungry
          predator, trapping the missile within its grasp.
            "Hmmmm…"
          intoned Garkin, "a trifle showy, but effective."
            "Just
          a little something I worked up when I was practicing," I said
          casually, reaching out with my mind for the other lizard-bird leg.
          Instead of floating gracefully to my waiting hand, however, it
          remained on the wooden platter as if it had taken root.
            "Not
          so fast, my little sneak-thief. So you've been practicing, eh?"
          He stroked his beard thoughtfully with the half-gnawed bone in his
          hand.
            "Certainly.
          Didn't it show?" It occurred to me that Garkin is not as easy to
          fool as it sometimes seems.
            "In
          that case, I'd like to see you light your candle. It should be easy
          if you have been practicing as much as you claim."
            "I
          have no objections to trying, but as you have said yourself so many
          times, some lessons come easier than others."
            Although
          I sounded confident, my spirits sank as the large candle came
          floating to the work table in response to Garkin's summons. In four
          years of trying I was yet to be successful at this particular
          exercise. If Garkin was going to keep me from food until I was
          successful, I could go hungry for a long time. "Say, uh, Garkin,
          it occurs to me I could probably concentrate better on a full
          stomach."
            "It
          occurs to me that you're stalling."
            "Couldn't
          I…."
            "Now,
          Skeeve."
            There
          was no swaying him once he used my proper name. That much I had
          learned over the years. Lad, Thief, Idiot, Turnip-Head, though
          derogatory, as long as he used one of these, his mind was still open.
          Once he reverted to using my proper name, it was hopeless. It is
          indeed a sorry state when the sound of your own name becomes a knell
          of doom.
            Well,
          if there was no way around it, I'd just have to give it my best shot.
          For this there could be no half-effort or feigned concentration. I
          would have to use every ounce of my strength and skill to summon the
          power.
            I
          studied the candle with a detached mind, momentarily blanking the
          effort ahead from my consciousness. The room, the cluttered
          workbench, Garkin, even my own hunger faded from view as I focused on
          the candle, though I had long since memorized its every feature.
            It
          was stout, nearly six inches across to stabilize its ten-inch height.
          I had carved numerous mystic symbols into its surface, copied
          painstakingly from Garkin's books at his direction, though many of
          them were partially obliterated by hardened rivulets of wax. The
          candle had burned many long hours to light my studies, but it had
          always been lit from a taper from the cooking fire and not from my
          efforts.
            Negative
          thought. Stop it.
            I
          will light the candle this time. I will light it because there is no
          reason I should not. Consciously deepening my breathing, I began to
          gather the power. My world narrowed further until all I was aware of
          was the curled, blackened wick of the candle.
            I
          am Skeeve. My father has a farmer's bond with the earth. My mother
          was an educated woman. My teacher is a master magician. I am Skeeve.
          I will light this candle.
            I
          could feel myself beginning to grow warm as the energies began to
          build within me. I focused the heat on the wick.
            Like
          my father, I tap the strength of the earth. The knowledge my mother
          gave me is like a lens, enabling me to focus what I have gained. The
          wisdom of my teacher directs my efforts to those points of the
          universe most likely to yield to my will. I am Skeeve.
            The
          candle remained unlit. There was sweat on my forehead now, and I was
          beginning to tremble with the effort. No that was wrong, I should not
          tense. Relax. Don't try to force it. Tenseness hinders the flow. Let
          the energies pass freely, serve as a passive conductor. I forced
          myself to relax, consciously letting the muscles in my face and
          shoulders go slack as I redoubled my efforts.
            The
          flow was noticeably more intense now. I could almost see the energy
          streaming from me to my target. I stretched out a finger which
          focused the energies even more. The candle remained unlit.
            I
          couldn't do it. Negative thought. Stop it. I am Skeeve. I will light
          the candle. My father…. No. Negative thought. Do not rely on
          others for your strength. I will light the candle because I am
          Skeeve.
            I
          was rewarded by a sudden surge of energy at the thought. I pursued
          it, growing heady with power. I am Skeeve. I am stronger than any of
          them. I escaped my father's attempts to chain me to a plow as he had
          my brother. My mother died from her idealism, but I used her
          teachings to survive. My teacher is a gullible fool who took a thief
          for an apprentice. I have beaten them all. I am Skeeve. I will light
          the candle.
            I
          was floating now. I realized how my abilities dwarfed those around
          me. Whether the candle lit or not was inconsequential. I am Skeeve. I
          am powerful.
            Almost
          contemptuously I reached out with my mind and touched the wick. A
          small bright ember appeared as if in answer to my will.
            Startled,
          I sat up and blinked at the candle. As I did. the ember disappeared,
          leaving a small white plume of smoke to mark its departure. I
          realized too late I had broken concentration.
            "Excellent,
          Lad!"
            Garkin
          was suddenly beside me pounding my shoulder enthusiastically. How
          long he had been there I neither knew nor cared.
            "It
          went out," I said plaintively.
            "Never
          you mind that. You lit it. You have the confidence now. Next time it
          will be easy. By the stars, we'll make a magician of you yet. Here,
          you must be hungry."
            I
          barely got my hand up in time to intercept the remaining lizard-bird
          leg before it smacked into my face.
            It
          was cold.
            "I
          don't mind admitting I was beginning to despair, lad. What made that
          lesson so hard? Has it occurred to you that you could use that spell
          to give you extra light when you're picking a lock or even to start a
          fire to serve as a diversion?"
            "I
          thought about it, but extra light could draw unwanted attention. As
          for starting a diversion, I'd be afraid of hurting someone. I don't
          want to hurt anyone, just…."
            I
          stopped, realizing what I was saying, too late. A heavy cuff from
          Garkin sent me sprawling off my stool.
            "I
          thought so! You're still planning to be a thief. You want to use my
          magiks to steal!"
            He
          was towering in his rage, but for once I stood my ground.
            "What
          of it?" I snarled. "It beats starving. What's so good about
          being a magician, anyway? I mean, your life-style here gives me so
          much to look forward to."
            I
          gestured at the cluttered room that was the entirety of the hut.
            "Listen
          to the wolfling complain," Garkin sneered. "It was good
          enough for you when the winter drove you out of the woods to steal.
          'It beats sleeping under a bush,' you said."
            "And
          it still does. That's why I'm still here. But I'm not going to spend
          the rest of my life here. Hiding in a little hut in the woods is not
          my idea of a future to look forward to. You were living on roots and
          berries until I came along and started trapping meat for the fire.
          Maybe that's your idea of a wonderful life, Garkin, but it's not
          mine!"
            We
          glared at each other for several long moments. Now that my anger was
          vented, I was more than a little afraid. While I had not had
          extensive experience in the field, I suspected that sneering at
          magicians was not the best way to ensure a long and healthy future.
            Surprisingly
          enough, it was Garkin who gave ground first. He suddenly dropped his
          gaze and bowed his head, giving me a rare view of the unkempt mass of
          hair atop it.
            "Perhaps
          you're right, Skeeve," his voice was strangely soft. "Perhaps
          I have been showing you all the work of magik, but not the rewards. I
          constantly forget how suppressed magik is in these lands."
            He
          raised his eyes to meet mine again, and I shivered at the impact.
          They were not angry, but deep within them burned a glow I had never
          seen before.
            "Know
          you now, Skeeve, that all lands are not like this one, nor was I
          always as you see me now. In lands where magik is recognized instead
          of feared as it is here, it is respected and commissioned by those in
          power. There a skillful magician who keeps his wits about him can
          reap a hundred times the wealth you aspire to as a thief, and such
          power that…."
            He
          broke off suddenly and shook his head as if to clear it. When he
          opened his eyes again, the glow I had seen burning earlier had died
          to an ember.
            "But
          you aren't to be impressed by words, are you, lad? Come, I'll show
          you a little demonstration of some of the power you may one day
          wield-if you practice your lessons, that is."
            The
          joviality in his voice was forced. I nodded my agreement in answer to
          that burning gaze. Truth to tell, I needed no demonstration. His
          soft, brief oration had awed me far more than any angry tirade or
          demonstration, but I did not wish to contradict him at this time.
            I
          don't believe he actually noticed my response. He was already
          striding into the large pentagram permanently inscribed in the floor
          of the hut. As he walked, he gestured absentmindedly and the charred
          copper brazier scuttled forth from its place in the corner to meet
          him at the center of the pentagram.
            I
          had time to reflect that perhaps it was that brazier that had first
          drawn me to Garkin. I remembered the first time I peered through the
          window of his hut seeking to identify and place objects of value for
          a later theft. I had seen Garkin as I have seen him so often since,
          pacing restlessly up and down the room, his nose buried in a book. It
          was a surprising enough sight as it was, for reading is not a common
          pastime in this area, but what captured my attention was the brazier.
          It hobbled about the room, following Garkin like an impatient puppy
          that was a little too polite to jump up on its master to get his
          attention. Then Garkin had looked up from his book, stared
          thoughtfully at his workbench; then, with a nod of decision,
          gestured. A small pot of unidentified content rose from the clutter
          and floated to his waiting hand. He caught it, referred to his book
          again, and poured out a dollop without looking up. Quick as a cat,
          the brazier scrambled under his hand and caught the dollop before it
          reached the floor. That had been my introduction to magik.
            Something
          wrenched my attention back to the present. What was it? I checked
          Garkin's progress. No, he was still at work, half hidden by a
          floating cloud of vials and jars, mumbling as he occasionally plucked
          one from the air and added a bit of its contents to the brazier.
          Whatever he was working on, it promised to be spectacular.
            Then
          I heard it again, a muffled step outside the hut.
            But
          that was impossible! Garkin always set the… I began to search
          my memory. I could not recall Garkin setting the protective wards
          before he started to work. Ridiculous. Caution was the first and most
          important thing Garkin hammered into me, and part of caution was
          always setting wards before you started working. He couldn't have
          forgotten… but he had been rather intense and distracted.
            I
          was still trying to decide if I should attempt to interrupt Garkin's
          work when he suddenly stepped back from the brazier. He fixed me with
          his gaze, and my warning died in my throat. This was not the time to
          impose reality on the situation. The glow was back in his eyes,
          stronger than before.
            "Even
          demonstrations should give a lesson," he intoned. "Control,
          Skeeve. Control is the mainstay of magik. Power without control is a
          disaster. That is why you practice with a feather though you are able
          to move much larger and heavier objects. Control. Even your meager
          powers would be dangerous unless controlled, and I will not teach you
          more until you have learned that control."
            He
          carefully stepped out of the pentagram.
            "To
          demonstrate the value of control, I will now summon forth a demon, a
          being from another world. He is powerful, cruel, and vicious, and
          would kill us both if given the chance. Yet despite this, we need not
          fear him because he will be controlled. He will be unable to harm us
          or anything else in this world as long as he is contained within that
          pentagram. Now watch, Skeeve. Watch and learn."
            So
          saying, he turned once more to the brazier. He spread his hands, and
          as he did, the five candles at the points of the pentagram sprang to
          life and the lines of the pentagram began to glow with an eerie blue
          light. Silence reigned for several minutes, then he began to chant in
          a low mumble. A thread of smoke appeared from the brazier, but
          instead of rising to the ceiling, it poured onto the floor and began
          to form a small cloud that seethed and pulsed. Garkin's chanting was
          louder now, and the cloud grew and darkened. The brazier was almost
          obscured from view, but there… in the depths of the cloud…
          something was taking shape….
            "Isstvan
          sends his greetings, Garkin!"
            I
          nearly jumped out of my skin at the words. They came from inside the
          hut, but not inside the pentagram! I whirled toward their source. A
          figure was standing just inside the door, blinding in a glowing gold
          cloak. For a mad moment I thought it was the demon answering Garkin's
          summons. Then I saw the cross bow. It was a man, alright, but the
          cross bow, cocked and loaded in his hand, did little for my peace of
          mind.
            Garkin
          did not even turn to look.
            "Not
          now, you fool!" he snarled.
            "It
          has been a long hunt, Garkin," the man continued as if he hadn't
          heard. "You've hidden yourself well, but did you really hope to
          escape…."
            "You
          dare!?!" Garkin spun from his work, towering in his rage. The
          man saw Garkin's face now, saw the eyes, and his face contorted in a
          grotesque mask of fear. Reflexively, he loosed the bolt from his
          cross bow, but too late. I did not see what Garkin did, things were
          happening too fast, but the man suddenly disappeared in a sheet of
          flame. He shrieked in agony and fell to the floor. The flame
          disappeared as suddenly as it had come, leaving only the smoldering
          corpse as evidence it had existed at all.
            I
          remained rooted to the spot for several moments before I could move
          or even speak.
            "Garkin,"
          I said at last, "I… Garkin!" Garkin's form was a
          crumpled lump on the floor. I was at his side in one bound, but I was
          far too late. The cross bow bolt protruded with silent finality from
          his chest. Garkin had given me my last lesson. As I stooped to touch
          his body, I noticed something that froze my blood in its veins.
          Half-hidden by his form was the extinguished candle from the north
          point of the pentagram. The lines were no longer glowing blue. The
          protective spell was gone.
            With
          agonizing effort, I raised my head and found myself gazing into a
          pair of yellow eyes, flecked with gold, that were not of this world.
        

        

            

                Chapter Two
            

            
                Things are not always as they seem.
                Mandrake
            
            ONCE,
in the woods, I found myself face to face with a snake-cat. On
another occasion, I encountered a spiderbear. Now, faced with a
demon, I decided to pattern my behavior after that which had saved me
in the aforementioned situations. I froze. At least, in hindsight, I
like to think it was a deliberate, calculated act.
            The
demon curled its lips back, revealing a double row of needle-sharp
teeth.
            I
considered changing my chosen course of action; I considered
fainting.
            The
demon ran a purple tongue over his lips and began to slowly extend a
taloned hand toward me. That did it! I went backward, not in a
catlike graceful bound, but scrabbling on all fours. It's surprising
how fast you can move that way when properly inspired. I managed to
build up a substantial head of steam before I crashed head-first into
the wall.
            "Gaahh…."
I said. It may not seem like much, but at the time it was the calmest
expression of pain and terror I could think of.
            At
my outburst, the demon seemed to choke. Several ragged shouts
erupted, then he began to laugh. It wasn't a low menacing laugh, but
the wholehearted enthusiastic laughter of someone who has just seen
something hysterically funny.
            I
found it both disquieting and annoying. Annoying because I had a
growing suspicion I was the source of his amusement; disquieting
because… well… he was a demon and demons are….
            "Cold,
vicious, and blood thirsty," the demon gasped as if he had read
my thoughts. "You really bought the whole line, didn't you,
kid?"
            "I
beg your pardon?" I said because I couldn't think of anything
else to say.
            "Something
wrong with your ears? I said 'cold, vicious….' "
            "I
heard you. I meant what did you mean."
            "What
I meant was that you were scared stiff, by a few well chosen words
from my esteemed colleague, I'll wager." He jerked a thumb at
Garkin's body. "Sorry for the dramatics. I felt a touch of comic
relief was necessary to lighten an otherwise tragic moment."
            "Comic
relief?"
            "Well,
actually, I couldn't pass up the opportunity. You should have seen
your face."
            He
chuckled to himself as he strode out of the pentagram and began
leisurely inspecting the premises.
            "So
this is Garkin's new place, huh? What a dump. Who would have thought
he'd come to this?"
            To
say I was perplexed would be an understatement. I wasn't sure how a
demon should act, but it wasn't like this.
            I
could have bolted for the door, but I did not seem to be in immediate
danger. Either this strange being meant me no harm, or he was
confident of his ability to stop me even if I tried to flee. For the
sake of my nervous system, I decided to assume the former.
            The
demon continued to inspect the hut, while I inspected him. He was
humanoid; that is, he had two arms, two legs, and a head. He was
short but powerfully built, a bit broader across the shoulders than a
man, and heavily muscled, but he wasn't human. I mean, you don't see
many hairless humans with dark green scales covering their body and
pointed ears lying flat against their head.
            I
decided to risk a question.
            "Ah,
excuse me."
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "Um,
you are a demon, aren't you?"
            "Huh?
Oh, yeah, I guess you could say I am."
            "Well,
if you don't mind my asking, why don't you act like a demon?"
            The
demon shot me a disgusted look, then turned his head heavenward in a
gesture of martyrdom.
            "Everybody's
a critic. Tell ya what, kid, would you be happier if I tore your
throat out with my teeth?"
            "Well,
no, but…."
            "For
that matter, who are you, anyway? Are you an innocent bystander, or
did you come with the assassin?"
            "I'm
with him," I hastened to reply, pointing a shaky finger at
Garkin's body. That bit about tearing my throat out had me on edge
again. "Or at least I was. Garkin. The one who summoned…
him!… I'm… I was his student."
            "No
kiddin'? Garkin's apprentice?" He began advancing toward me,
reaching out a hand, "Pleased ta… what's wrong?"
            As
he moved toward me, I had started backing away from him. I tried to
do it casually, but he had noticed.
            "Well…
it's… you are a demon."
            "Yeah.
So?"
            "Um…
well, demons are supposed to be…."
            "Hey,
relax, kid. I don't bite. Look, I'm an old buddy of Garkin's."
            "I
thought you said you were a demon?"
            "That's
right. I'm from another dimension. A dimension traveler, or demon for
short. Get it?"
            "What's
a dimension?"
            The
demon scowled.
            "Are
you sure you're Garkin's apprentice? I mean, he hasn't told you
anything at all about dimensions?"
            "No,"
I answered. "I mean, yes, I'm his apprentice, but he never said
anything about the demon-suns."
            "That's
dimensions," he corrected. "Well, a dimension is another
world, actually one of several worlds, existing simultaneously with
this one, but on different planes. Follow me?"
            "No,"
I admitted.
            "Well,
just accept that I'm from another world. Now, in that world, I'm a
magician just like Garkin. We had an exchange program going where we
could summon each other across the barrier to impress our respective
apprentices."
            "I
thought you said you were a demon," I said suspiciously.
            "I
am'. Look, kid. In my world, you'd be a demon, but at the current
moment I'm in yours, so I'm a demon."
            "I
thought you said you were a magician."
            "I
don't believe this!" The demon made his angry appeal to the
heavens. "I'm standing here arguing with some twerp of an
apprentice…. Look, kid."
            He
fixed me with his gaze again.
            "Let
me try it this way. Are you going to shake my hand, or am I going to
rip your heart out?"
            Since
he put it that way… I mean, for a minute there, when he lost
his temper and started shouting, he sounded just like Garkin. It gave
credibility to his claim of friendship with my ex-teacher. I took his
extended hand and shook it cautiously.
            "I'm….
My name is Skeeve."
            His
grip was cold, but firm. So firm in fact that I found it impossible
to reclaim my hand as rapidly as I would have liked.
            "Pleased
ta meetcha, kid. I'm Aahz."
            "Oz?"
            "No
relation."
            "No
relation to what?" I asked, but he was examining the room again.
            "Well,
there's certainly nothing here to arouse the greedy side of his
fellow beings. Early primitive, enduring, but not particularly sought
after."
            "We
like it," I said, rather stiffly. Now that I was over being
scared, I didn't like the sneer in his voice. The hut wasn't much and
I certainly wasn't overly fond of it, but I resented his criticism.
            "Don't
get your back up, kid." Aahz said easily. "I'm looking for
a motive, that's all."
            "Motive?"
            "A
reason for someone to off old Garkin. I'm not big on vengeance, but
he was a drinking buddy of mine and it's got my curiosity up."
            He
broke off his inspection of the room to address me directly.
            "How
about you, kid? Can you think of anything? Any milkmaids he's seduced
or farmers he's cheated? You've got an interest in this too, you
know. You might be the next target."
            "But
the guy who did it is dead." I gestured to the charred lump by
the door. "Doesn't that finish it?"
            "Wake
up, kid. Didn't you see the gold cloak? That was a professional
assassin. Somebody hired him, and that somebody would hire another
one."
            A
chill ran down my spine. I hadn't really thought of that. I began to
search my memory for a clue.
            "Well…
he said Isstvan sent him."
            "What's
an Isstvan?"
            "I
don't… wait a minute. What do you mean, I might be the next
target?"
            "Neat,
huh?" Aahz was holding up the gold cloak. "Lined, and
completely reversible. Always wondered how come no one noticed them
until they were ready to pounce."
            "Aahz…."
            "Hmmm?
Oh, didn't mean to scare you. It's just if someone's declared open
season on magicians in general or Garkin specifically, you might have
some…. Hello, what's this?"
            "What's
what?" I asked, trying to get a look at what he had found.
            "This,"
he said, holding his prize aloft. "It seems I'm not the only
demon about."
            It
was a head, apparently the assassin's. It was badly charred, with
bone showing in several places. My natural revulsion at the sight was
compounded by several obvious features. The chin and ears of the head
were unnaturally pointed, and there were two short, blunt, horns
protruding from the forehead.
            "A
devil!" I exclaimed in horror.
            "A
what? Oh, a Deveel. No, it's not from Deva, it's from Imper. An Imp.
Didn't Garkin teach you anything?"
            "Come
again?" I asked, but Aahz was busy scowling at the head.
            "The
question is, who would be crass enough to hire an Imp for an
assassin? The only one I can think of is Isstvan, but that's
impossible."
            "But
that's who did it. Don't you remember? I told you…."
            "I
thought you said 'Isstvan.'"
            "I
did! Wait a minute. What did you say?"
            "I
said Isstvan. Can't you tell the difference?"
            "No,"
I admitted.
            "Hmmm…
must be too subtle for the human ear to detect. Oh, well. No matter.
This changes everything. If Isstvan is up to his old tricks there's
no time to lose. Hey! Wait a minute. What's this?"
            "It's
a cross bow," I observed.
            "With
heat-seeking armor-piercing quarrels? Is that the norm in this
world?"
            "Heat-seeking…."
            "Never
mind, kid. I didn't think so. Well, that tears it. I'd better check
this out quick."
            He
began to stride into the pentagram. I suddenly realized he was
preparing to leave.
            "Hey!
Wait a minute! What's going on?"
            "It
would take too long to explain, kid. Maybe I'll see you again
sometime."
            "But
you said I might be a target!"
            "Yeah,
well, that's the way it crumbles. Tell ya what.
            Start
running and maybe they won't find you until it's over."
            My
head was awhirl. Things were happening far too fast for clear
thought. I still didn't know what or who the demon was or if I should
trust him, but I did know one thing. He was the nearest thing to an
ally I had in a situation where I was clearly outclassed.
            "Couldn't
you help me?"
            "No
time. I've got to move."
            "Couldn't
I come with you?"
            "You'd
just get in the way, maybe even get me killed."
            "But
without you. I'll be killed!" I was getting desperate, but Aahz
was unimpressed. "Probably not. Tell ya what, kid. I've really
got to get going, but just to show you I think you'll survive, I'll
show you a little trick you might use sometime. You see all this crud
Garkin used to bring me across the barrier? Well, it's not necessary.
Watch close and I'll show you how we do it when our apprentices
aren't watching."
            I
wanted to shout, to make him stop and listen to me, but he had
already started. He spread his arms at shoulder height, looked
heavenward, took a deep breath, then clapped his hands.
            Nothing
happened.
        

        

            

                Chapter Three
            

            
                The
only thing more reliable than magik is one's friends!
                Macbeth
            
            AAHZ
scowled and repeated the gesture, a bit quicker this time.
            The
scene remained unchanged.
            I
decided something was wrong.
            "Is
something wrong?" I asked politely.
            "You'd
better believe there's something wrong," Aahz snarled. "It's
not working."
            "Are
you sure you're doing it right?"
            "Yes,
I'm sure I'm doing it right, just like I've been sure the last fifty
times I did it!"
            He
was starting to sound annoyed.
            "Can
you…."
            "Look,
kid. If I knew what was wrong, I'd have fixed it already. Now, just
shut up and let me think!"
            He
sank down to sit cross-legged in the center of the pentagram where he
began sketching vague patterns in the floor as he mumbled darkly to
himself. I wasn't sure if he was trying some alternate incantation or
was simply thinking hard, but decided it would be unwise to ask.
Instead, I used the time to organize my scrambled thoughts.
            I
still wasn't sure if Aahz was a threat to me or if he was my only
possible salvation from a greater threat. I mean, by this time I was
pretty sure he was kidding about ripping my heart out, but that's the
sort of thing one wants to be very sure of. One thing I had learned
for certain, there was more to this magik stuff than floating
feathers around.
            "That's
got to be it!"
            Aahz
was on his feet again, glaring at Garkin's body.
            "That
ill-begot son of a wombat!"
            "What's
a wombat?" I asked, then immediately wished I hadn't. The mental
image that sprang into my mind was so horrifying I was sure I didn't
want details. I needn't have worried. Aahz was not about to take time
to answer me.
            "Well,
it's a pretty crummy joke. That's all I have to say."
            "Urn….
What are you talking about, Aahz?"
            "I'm
talking about Garkin! He did this to me. If I thought it would go
this far, I would have turned him into a goat-fish when I had the
chance."
            "Aahz….
I still don't…."
            I
stopped. He had ceased his ranting and was looking at me. I shrank
back reflexively before I recognized the snarl as his smile. I liked
it better when he was raving.
            "I'm
sorry, Skeeve," he purred. "I guess I haven't been very
clear."
            I
was growing more uneasy by the minute. I wasn't used to having
people, much less demons, being nice to me.
            "Um….
That's okay. I was just wondering…."
            "You
see, the situation is this. Garkin and I have been… playing
little jokes on each other for some time now. It started one time
when we were drinking and he stiffed me with the bill. Well, the next
time I summoned him, I brought him in over a lake and he had to do
his demon act armpit deep in water. He got even by… well, I
won't bore you with details, but we've gotten in the habit of putting
each other in awkward or embarrassing situations. It's really very
childish, but quite harmless. But this time…." Aahz's
eyes started to narrow, "But this time the old frog-kissers gone
too… I mean, it seems to have gotten a little out of hand.
Don't you agree?"
            He
bared his fangs at me again in a smile. I wanted very badly to agree
with him, but I didn't have the foggiest idea what he was talking
about.
            "You
still haven't told me what's wrong."
            "What's
wrong is that stinking slime-monger took away my powers!" he
roared, forgetting his composure. "I'm blocked! I can't do a
flaming thing unless he removes his stupid prankish spell and he
can't 'cause he's dead! Now do you understand me, fly-bait?"
            I
made up my mind. Savior or not, I'd rather he went back where he came
from.
            "Well,
if there was anything I could do…."
            "There
is, Skeeve, my boy." Aahz was suddenly all purrs and teeth
again. "All you have to do is fire up the old cauldron or
whatever and remove this spell. Then we can each go our separate ways
and…."
            "I
can't do that."
            "Okay,
kid," his smile was a little more forced. "I'll stick
around until you're on your feet. I mean, what are friends for?"
            "That's
not it."
            "What
do you want? Blood?" Aahz was no longer smiling. "If you're
trying to hold me up, I'll…."
            "You
don't understand!" I interrupted desperately. "I can't do
it because I can't do it! I don't know how!"
            That
stopped him.
            "Hmm.
That could be a problem. Well, tell you what. Instead of pulling the
spell here, what say you just pop me back to my own dimension and
I'll get someone there to take it off."
            "I
can't do that either. Remember, I told you I'd never even heard of…."
            "Well.
what can you do?!"
            "I
can levitate objects… well, small objects."
            "And…."
he encouraged.
            "And…
urn… I can light a candle."
            "Light
a candle?"
            "Well…
almost."
            Aahz
sank heavily into a chair and hid his face in his hands for several
minutes. I waited for him to think of something.
            "Kid,
have you got anything in this dump to drink?" he asked finally.
            "I'll
get you some water."
            "I
said something to drink, not something to wash in!"
            "Oh.
Yessir!"
            I
hastened to bring him a goblet of wine from the small keg Garkin
kept, hoping he wouldn't notice the vessel wasn't particularly clean.
            "What
will this do? Will it help you put your powers back?"
            "No.
But it might make me feel a little better." He tossed the wine
down in one swallow, and studied the goblet disdainfully. "Is
this the biggest container you've got?"
            I
cast about the room desperately, but Aahz was way ahead of me.
            He
rose, strode into the pentagram, and picked up the brazier. I knew
from past experience it was deceptively heavy, but he carried it to
the keg as if it were weightless. Not bothering to empty out Garkin's
concoction, he filled it to the brim and took a deep draught.
            "Aah!
That's better." He sighed.
            I
felt a little queasy.
            "Well,
kid," he said, sweeping me with an appraising stare, "it
looks like we're stuck with each other. The setup isn't ideal, but
it's what we've got. Time to bite the bullet and play the cards we're
dealt. You do know what cards are, don't you?"
            "Of
course," I said, slightly wounded.
            "Good."
            "What's
a bullet?"
            Aahz
closed his eyes as if struggling against some inner turmoil.
            "Kid,"
he said at last, "there's a good chance this partnership is
going to drive one of us crazy. I would guess it will be me unless
you can knock off the dum-dum questions every other sentence."
            "But
I can't understand half of what you're saying."
            "Hmm.
Tell ya what. Try to save up the questions and ask me all at one time
once a day. Okay?"
            "I'll
try."
            "Right.
Now here's the situation as I see it. If Isstvan is hiring Imps for
assassins…."
            "What's
an Imp?"
            "Kid,
will you give me a break?"
            "I'm
sorry, Aahz. Keep going."
            "Right.
Well… umm…. It's happening!" he made his appeal to
the heavens. "I can't remember what I was saying!"
            "Imps,"
I prompted.
            "Oh!
Right. Well, if he's hiring Imps and arming them with non-spec
weapons, it can only mean he's up to his old tricks. Now since I
don't have my powers, I can't get out of here to sound the alarm.
That's where you come in, kid…. Kid?"
            He
was looking at me expectantly. I found I could contain my misery no
longer.
            "I'm
sorry, Aahz," I said in a small, pitiful voice I hardly
recognized as my own. "I don't understand a single thing you've
said."
            I
suddenly realized I was about to cry, and turned away hurriedly so he
wouldn't see. I sat there, with tears trickling down my cheeks,
alternately fighting the urge to wipe them away and wondering why I
was concerned over whether or not a demon saw me crying. I don't know
how long I stayed that way, but I was brought back to reality by a
gentle hand on my shoulder, a cold, gentle hand.
            "Hey,
kid. Don't beat on yourself," Aahz's voice was surprisingly
sympathetic. "It's not your fault if Garkin was tight with his
secrets. Nobody expects you to have learned something you were never
taught, so there's no reason you should expect it either."
            "I
just feel so stupid," I said, not turning. "I'm not used to
feeling stupid."
            "You
aren't stupid, kid. That much I know. Garkin wouldn't have taken you
for an apprentice if you were stupid. If anybody here's stupid, it's
me. I got so carried away with the situation, I forgot myself and
tried talking to an apprentice as if he were a full-blown magician.
Now that's stupid."
            I
still couldn't bring myself to respond.
            "Heck,
kid." He gave my shoulder a gentle shake. "Right now you
can do more magik than I can."
            "But
you know more."
            "But
I can't use it. You know, kid, that gives me an idea. With old Garkin
dead there, you're kind of cut off. What say you sign on as my
apprentice for a while. We'll take it from the top with me teaching
you as if you were a new student who didn't know a thing. We'll take
it step by step from the beginning. What da ya say?"
            In
spite of my gloom I felt my spirits lift. Like he said, I'm not
stupid. I could recognize a golden opportunity when I saw one.
            "Gee,
that sounds great, Aahz."
            "Then
it's a deal?"
            "It's
a deal," I answered and stuck out my hand.
            "What's
that?" he snarled. "Isn't my word good enough for you?"
            "But
you said…."
            "That's
right. You're my apprentice now, and I don't go around shaking
apprentices' hands."
            I
withdrew my hand. It occurred to me this alliance might not be all
roses and song.
            "Now
as I was saying, here's what we've got to do about the current
situation…."
            "But
I haven't had any lessons yet!"
            "That's
right. Here's your first lesson. When a crisis shapes up, you don't
waste energy wishing for information or skills you haven't got. You
dig in and handle it as best you can with what you've got. Now shut
up while I fill you in on the situation… apprentice."
            I
shut up and listened. He studied me for a moment, then gave a small
satisfied nod, took another gulp from the brazier and began.
            "Now,
you have a vague idea about other dimensions because I told you about
them earlier. You also have firsthand experience that magicians can
open passages in the barriers between those dimensions. Well,
different magicians use that power in different ways. Some of them,
like Garkin, only use it to impress the yokels; summon a demon,
visions of other worlds, that kind of schtick. But there are others
whose motives are not so pure."
            He
paused to take another gulp of wine. Surprisingly, I felt no urge to
interrupt with questions.
            "Technology
in different dimensions has progressed at different rates, as has
magik. Some magicians use this to their own advantage. They aren't
showmen, they're smugglers, buying and selling technology across the
barriers for profit and power. Most of the inventors in any dimension
are actually closet magicians."
            I
must have frowned without realizing it, but Aahz noted it and
acknowledged it with a wink and a smirk.
            "I
know what you're thinking, Skeeve. It all sounds a little dishonest
and unscrupulous. Actually, they're a fairly ethical bunch. There's a
set of unwritten rules called the Smugglers Code they adhere to
pretty closely."
            "Smugglers
Code?" I asked, forgetting myself for a moment. Aahz didn't seem
to mind this time.
            "It's
like the Mercenaries Code, but less violent and more profitable.
Anyway, as an example, one item in that code states you cannot bring
an 'invention' into a dimension that is too far in advance of that
dimensions technology, like bringing guided missiles into a long bow
culture or lasers into a flint and powder era."
            I
kept my silence with great difficulty.
            "As
I've said, most magicians adhere to the code fairly closely, but once
in a while a bad one crops up. That brings us to Isstvan."
            I
got a sudden chill at the sound of that name. Maybe there was
something different in the way Aahz pronounced it.
            "Some
say Isstvan isn't playing with a full deck. I think he's been playing
with his wand too much. But whatever the reason, somewhere he's
gotten it into his head he wants to rule the dimensions, all of them.
He's tried it before, but we got wind of it in time and a bunch of us
teamed up to teach him a lesson in manners. As a matter of fact,
that's when I first met Garkin there."
            He
gestured with the brazier and slopped a bit of wine on the floor. I
began to doubt his sobriety, but his voice seemed steady enough as he
continued.
            "I
thought he had given the thing up after his last drubbing. We even
gave him a few souvenirs to be sure he didn't forget. Then this thing
pops up. If he's hiring cross-dimension help and arming them with
advance technology weapons, he's probably trying to do it again."
            "Do
what?"
            "I
just told you. Take over the dimensions."
            "I
know, but how? I mean, how does what he does in this dimension help
him rule the others?"
            "Oh,
that. Well, each dimension has a certain amount of power that can be
channeled or converted into magik. Different dimensions have
different amounts, and each dimensions power is divided up or shared
by the magicians of that dimension. If he can succeed in controlling
or killing the other magicians in this dimension, he can use its
entire magical energy to attack another dimension. If he succeeds in
winning there, he has the power from two dimensions to attack a
third, and so on. As you can see, the longer he keeps his plot
moving, the stronger he gets and the harder he'll be to stop."
            "I
understand now," I said, genuinely pleased and enthusiastic.
            "Good.
Then you understand why we've got to stop him."
            I
stopped being pleased and enthusiastic.
            "We?
You mean us? You and me?"
            "I
know it's not much of a force, kid, but like I said, it's all we've
got."
            "I
think I'd like a little of that wine now."
            "None
of that, kid. You're in training now. You're going to need all the
practice time you can get if we're going to stop Isstvan. Bonkers or
not, he's no slouch when it comes to magik."
            "Aahz,"
I said slowly, not looking up. "Tell me the truth. Do you think
there's a chance you can teach me enough magik that we'll have a
chance of stopping him?"
            "Of
course, kid. I wouldn't even try if we didn't have a chance. Trust
me."
            I
wasn't convinced, and from the sound of his voice, neither was he.
        

        

            

                Chapter Four
            

            
                Careful planning is the key to safe and swift travel.
                Ulysses
            
            "HMMM…
Well, it's not a tailored jump-suit, but it will have to do."
            We
had been trying to outfit Aahz in a set of clothes and he was
surveying the results in a small dark mirror we had found, turning it
this way and that to catch his reflection piecemeal.
            "Maybe
if we could find some other color than this terrible brown."
            "That's
all we've got."
            "Are
you sure?"
            "Positive.
I have two shirts, both brown. You're wearing one, and I'm wearing
the other."
            "Hmmm…."
he said, studying me carefully. "Maybe I would look better in
the lighter brown. Oh, well, we can argue that out later."
            I
was curious as to his attention to his appearance. I mean, he
couldn't be planning on meeting anyone. The sight of a green, scaly
demon would upset most of the locals no matter what he was wearing.
For the time being, however, I deemed it wisest to keep quiet and
humor him in his efforts.
            Actually,
the clothes fit him fairly well. The shirt was a bit short in the
sleeves due to the length of his arms, but not too because I was
taller than him, which made up for most of the difference. We had had
to cut off some of the trouser legs to cover for his shorter legs,
but they, like the body of the shirt, were not too tight. I had made
the clothes myself originally, and they tended to be a bit baggy, or
at least they were on me. Tailoring is not my forte.
            He
was also wearing Garkin's boots, which fitted him surprisingly well.
I had raised minor protest at this, until he pointed out Garkin had
no further use for them but we did. Pragmatism, he called it.
Situational ethics. He said it would come in handy if I was serious
about becoming a magician.
            "Hey,
kid!" Aahz's voice interrupted my thoughts. He seemed to be
occupied rummaging through the various chests and cupboards of the
hut. "Don't you have anything here in the way of weapons?"
            "Weapons?"
            "Yeah,
you know, the things that killed old Garkin there. Swords, knives,
bows, stuff like that."
            "I
know what they are. I just wasn't expecting you to be interested in
them, that's all."
            "Why
not?"
            "Well…
I thought you said you were a magician."
            "We
aren't going to go through that again, are we, kid? Besides, what's
that got to do with weapons?"
            "It's
just that I've never known a magician who used weapons other than his
powers."
            "Really?
How many magicians have you known?"
            "One,"
I admitted.
            "Terrific.
Look, kid, if old Garkin didn't want to use weapons, that's his
problem. Me, I want some. If you'll notice, Garkin is dead."
            It
was hard to argue with logic like that.
            "Besides,"
he continued, "do you really want to take on Isstvan and his
pack with nothing but your magik and my agility going for us?"
            "I'll
help you look."
            We
went to work rummaging for weapons, but aside from the cross bow that
had killed Garkin, we didn't find much. One of the chests yielded a
sword with a jewel encrusted handle, and we discovered two knives,
one white handled and one black handled, on Garkin's workbench. Aside
from those, there was nothing even remotely resembling a fighting
utensil in the hut. Aahz was not overjoyed.
            "I
don't believe this. A sword with a cruddy blade, bad balance, and
phony jewels in the handle and two knives that haven't been sharpened
since they were made. Anybody who keeps weapons like this should be
skewered."
            "He
was."
            "True
enough. Well, if that's all we've got, that's what we'll have to
use."
            He
slung the sword on his hip and tucked the white handled knife into
his belt. I thought he would give me the other knife, but instead he
stooped down and secured it in his boot.
            "Don't
I get one?"
            "Can
you use it?"
            "Well…."
            He
resumed his task. I had a small knife I used to skin small game
tucked in my own belt inside my shirt. Even to my inexperienced eye
it was of better quality than the two Aahz had just appropriated. I
decided not to bring it to his attention.
            "Okay,
kid. Where did the old man keep his money?" I showed him. One of
the stones in the fireplace was loose and there was a small leather
pouch hidden behind it. He peered at the coins suspiciously as they
poured into his palm.
            "Check
me on this, kid. Copper and silver aren't worth much in this
dimension, right?"
            "Well,
silver's sorta valuable, but it's not worth as much as gold."
            "Then
what's with this chicken-feed? Where's the real money?"
            "We
never really had much."
            "Come
off it… I haven't met a magician yet who didn't have a bundle
socked away. Just because he never spent any of it doesn't mean he
doesn't have it. Now think. Haven't you ever seen anything around
that was gold or had gems?"
            "Well,
there are a few items, but they're protected by curses."
            "Kid,
think for a minute. If you were a doddering old wreck who couldn't
fight your way out of a paper bag, how would you protect your
treasures?"
            "I
don't know."
            "Terrific.
I'll explain while we gather it up."
            In
short order we had a modest heap of loot on the table, most of it
items I had long held in awe. There was a gold statue of a man with
the head of a lion, the Three Pearls of Kraul, a gold pendant in the
shape of the sun with three of its rays missing, and a ring with a
large jewel we took from Garkin's hand. Aahz held up the sun pendant.
            "Now
this is an example of what I mean. I suppose there's a story about
what happened to the missing three rays?"
            "Well,"
I began, "there was a lost tribe that worshiped a huge snake
toad…."
            "Skip
it. It's an old dodge. What you do is take your gold to a craftsman
and have him fashion it into something with a lot of small
out-juttings like fingers or arms or…" He held up the
pendant. "… rays of sun. It gives you the best of two
worlds.
            "First,
you have something mystical and supernatural, add a ghost story and
no one will dare to touch it. Second, it has the advantage that if
you need a little ready cash, you just break off a ray or an arm and
sell it for the value of the gold. Instead of losing value, the price
of the remaining item increases because of its mystical history, the
strange circumstances under which it was torn asunder, purely
fictional, of course."
            Strangely
enough, I was not surprised. I was beginning to wonder if anything
Garkin had told me was true.
            "Then
none of these things have any real magical powers or curses?"
            "Now,
I didn't say that. Occasionally, you stumble across a real item, but
they're usually few and far between."
            "But
how can you tell the real thing from a fake?"
            "I
take it that Garkin didn't teach you to see auras. Well, that
figures. Probably was afraid you'd take his treasure and run. Okay,
kid. Time for your first lesson. Have you ever daydreamed? You know,
just stared at something and let your mind wander?"
            I
nodded.
            "Okay,
here's what I want you to do. Scoot down in your chair until your
head is almost level with the table. That's right. Comfortable? Fine.
Now I want you to look across the table at the wall. Don't focus on
it, just stare at it and let your mind wander."
            I
did as he said. It was hard not focusing on a specific point, so I
set my mind to wandering. What to think about? Well, what was I
thinking about when the candle almost lit. Oh yes. I am Skeeve. I am
powerful and my power is growing daily. I smiled to myself. With the
demon's aid, I would soon become a knowledgeable sorcerer. And that
would just be the start. After that…
            "Hey!"
I said, sitting upright.
            "What
did you see?"
            "It
was… well, nothing, I guess."
            "Don't
give me a hard time, kid. What did you see?"
            "Well,
for a second there I thought I saw sort of a red glow around the
ring, but when I looked at it squarely, it disappeared."
            "The
ring, eh? It figures. Well, that's it. The rest of the stuff should
be okay."
            He
scraped the rest of the loot into a sack, leaving the ring on the
table.
            "What
was it?"
            "What?
Oh, what you saw? That was an aura. Most people have them. Some
places do, but it's a sure test to check if an item is truly magical.
I'd be willing to bet that the ring is what old Garkin used to fry
the assassin."
            "Aren't
we going to take it with us?"
            "Do
you know how to control it?"
            "Well….no."
            "Neither
do I. The last thing we need is to carry around a ring that shoots
fire. Particularly if we don't know how to activate it. Leave it.
Maybe the others will find it and turn it on themselves."
            He
tucked the sack into his waist band.
            "What
others?" I prompted.
            "Hmmm?
Oh, the other assassins."
            "What
other assassins?" I was trying to be calm, but I was slipping.
            "That's
right. This is the first time you've tangled with them, isn't it? I
would have thought Garkin…."
            "Aahz,
could you just tell me?"
            "Oh!
Sure, kid. Assassins never work alone. That's why they never miss.
They work in groups of two to eight. There's probably a back-up team
around somewhere. Realizing Isstvan's respect for Garkin, I'd guess
he wouldn't send less than six out on an assignment like this, maybe
even two teams."
            "You
mean all this time you've been fooling around with clothes and
swords, there's been more assassins on the way?"
            "Relax,
kid. That's the back-up team. They'll be waiting a ways off and won't
move until tomorrow at the earliest. It's professional courtesy. They
want to give this bozo room to maneuver. Besides, it's tradition that
the assassin who actually does the deed gets first pick of any random
booty lying around before the others show up to take even shares.
Everyone does it, but it's considered polite to not notice some of
the loot has been pocketed before the official split."
            "How
do you know so much about assassins, Aahz?"
            "Went
with one for a while… lovely lass, but she couldn't keep her
mouth shut, even in bed. Sometimes I wonder if any profession really
guards its secrets as closely as they claim."
            "What
happened?"
            "With
what?"
            "With
your assassin?"
            "None
of your business, kid." Aahz was suddenly brusque again. "We've
got work to do."
            "What
are we going to do?"
            "Well,
first we bury the Imp. Maybe it will throw the others off our trail.
With any luck, they'll think he grabbed all the loot and disappeared.
It wouldn't be the first time."
            "No,
I mean after that. We're getting ready to travel, but where are we
going?"
            "Kid,
sometimes you worry me. That isn't even magik. It's common sense
military action. First, we find Isstvan. Second, we appraise his
strength. Third, we make our plans, and fourth, we execute them, and
hopefully him."
            "Urn…
Aahz, could we back up to one for a minute? Where are we going to
find Isstvan?"
            That
stopped him.
            "Don't
you know where he is?"
            "I
never even heard his name before today."
            We
sat in silence staring at each other for a long time.
        

        

            

                Chapter Five
            

            
                Only constant and conscientious practice in the Martial Arts will ensure a long and happy life.
                B. Lee
            
            "I
THINK I've got it figured out, kid."
            As
Aahz spoke, he paused in honing his sword to inspect the edge. Ever
since our trek began he had seized every opportunity to work on his
weapons. Even when we simply paused to rest by a stream he busied
himself working their edges or adjusting their balance. I felt I had
learned more about weapons in the last week just watching him tinker
than I had in my entire previous life.
            "Figured
what out?"
            "Why
people in this world are trained in weapons or magik, but not both!"
            "How's
that?"
            "Well,
two reasons I can see just offhand. First off, it's a matter of
conditioning. Reflexes. You'll react the way you're trained. If
you've been trained with weapons, you'll react to crisis with a
weapon. If you're trained in magik, you'll react with magik. The
problem is, if you're trained both ways, you'll hesitate, trying to
make up your mind which to use, and probably get clobbered in the
process. So to keep things simple, Garkin only trained you in magik.
It's probably all he had been trained in himself."
            I
thought about it.
            "That
makes sense. What's the other reason?"
            He
grinned at me.
            "Learning
curve. If what you told me about life expectancy in this world is
even vaguely accurate, and if you're any example of how fast people
in this world learn, you only have time to learn one or the other."
            "I
think I prefer the first explanation."
            He
chortled to himself and went back to sharpening his sword.
            Once
his needling would have bothered me, but now I took it in stride. It
seemed to be his habit to be critical of everything in our world, and
me in particular. After a week of constant exposure to him, the only
way I would worry is if he stopped complaining.
            Actually
I was quite pleased with my progress in magik. Under Aahz's tutelage,
my powers were growing daily. One of the most valuable lessons I had
learned was to draw strength directly from the earth. It was a matter
of envisioning energy as a tangible force, like water, and drawing
new energy up one leg and into my mind while releasing exhausted
energy down the other leg and back into the earth. Already, I could
completely recharge myself even after a hard day's walking just by
standing motionless with my eyes closed for several minutes and
effecting this energy exchange. Aahz, as always, was unimpressed.
According to him, I should have been able to do the energy exchange
while we were walking, but I didn't let his grumbling dampen my
enthusiasm. I was learning, and at a faster pace than I had dreamed
possible.
            "Hey,
kid. Fetch me a piece of wood, will you?"
            I
smiled to myself and looked around. About ten feet away was a small
branch of deadwood about two feet long. I leisurely stretched out a
finger and it took flight, floating gently across the clearing to
hover in the air in front of Aahz.
            "Not
bad, kid," he acknowledged. Then his sword flashed out, cutting
the branch into two pieces which dropped to the ground. He picked up
one of the pieces and inspected the cut.
            "Hmmm…
there may be hope for this sword yet. Why did you let them fall?"
            This
last was directed at me.
            "I
don't know. I guess you startled me when you swung the sword."
            "Oh,
really?"
            Suddenly
he threw the stick at me. I yelped and tried to duck out of the way,
but it bounced painfully off my shoulder.
            "Hey!
What was that for?"
            "Call
it an object lesson. You know you can control the stick because you
just did it when you fetched it for me. So why did you duck out of
the way? Why not just stop it with your magik?"
            "I
guess it never occurred to me. You didn't give me much time to
think."
            "Okay,
so think! This time you know it's coming."
            He
picked up the second piece of wood and waited, grinning evilly, which
with pointed teeth is easy. I ignored him, letting my mind settle;
then I nodded that I was ready.
            The
stick struck me squarely in the chest.
            "Ow!!"
I commented.
            "And
there, my young friend, is the difference between classroom and
field. Classroom is fine to let you know that things can be done and
that you can do them, but in actual practice you will never be
allowed the luxury of leisurely gathering your power, and seldom will
you have a stationary target."
            "Say,
uh, Aahz. If you're really trying to build up my self-confidence, how
come you always cut my legs out from under me every time I start
thinking I'm getting someplace?"
            He
stood up, sheathing his sword.
            "Self-confidence
is a wonderful thing, kid, but not if it isn't justified. Someday
we'll be staking one or both of our lives on your abilities, and it
won't do us any good if you've been kidding yourself along. Now let's
get down to work!"
            "Um…
have we got the time?"
            "Relax,
kid. Imps are tenacious, but they travel slow."
            Our
strategy upon leaving the hut had been simple. Lacking a specific
direction for our search, we would trace the force lines of the world
until we either found Isstvan or located another magician who would
be able to steer us to him.
            One
might ask what force lines are. I did. Force lines, as Aahz explained
them, are those paths of a world along which its energies flow most
freely. In many ways, they are not unlike magnetic lines.
            One
might ask what magnetic lines are. I did. I will not quote Aahz's
answer to that, but it was not information.
            Anyway,
force lines are a magician's ally and enemy. Those who would tap the
energies of those lines usually set up residence on or near one of
those lines. This makes it easier for them to draw upon the energies.
It also makes it easier for their enemies to find them.
            It
was Aahz's theory that searching the force lines was how Garkin was
located. It was therefore logical that we should be able to find
Isstvan the same way.
            Of
course, I knew nothing of force lines or how to follow them, at least
until Aahz taught me. It was not a difficult technique, which was
fortunate as I had my hands full trying to absorb all the other
lessons Aahz was deluging me with.
            One
simply closes one's eyes and relaxes, trying to envision a
two-pointed spear in glowing yellows and reds suspended in midair.
The intensity of the glow indicates the nearness to a force line; the
direction of the points shows the flow of energies. Rather like the
needle of a compass, whatever that is.
            Once
we had determined that Garkin had set up shop directly on a force
line, as Aahz had suspected, and established direction of the flow of
energies, we had another problem. Which way did we follow it?
            The
decision was doubly important as, if Aahz was correct, there would be
a team of Imp assassins waiting in one direction, very probably in
the direction we wanted to go.
            We
solved the problem by traveling one day's journey perpendicular to
the force line, then for two days parallel to the line in our chosen
direction, then returning to the line before continuing our journey.
We hoped this would bypass the assassins entirely.
            It
worked, and it didn't.
            It
worked in that we didn't walk into an ambush. It didn't work in that
now it seemed they were on our trail, though whether they were
actually tracking us or merely following the force line back to
Isstvan was unknown.
            "I
keep telling you, kid," Aahz insisted, "it's a good sign.
It means we've chosen the right direction, and that we'll reach
Isstvan ahead of his assassins' report."
            "What
if we're heading in the wrong direction?" I argued. "What
if they're really following us? How long do we travel in this
direction before we give up and admit it?"
            "How
long do you figure it will take for you to learn enough magik to
stand up to a pack of Imp assassins armed with off-dimension
weapons?"
            "Let's
get to work," I said firmly.
            He
looked around, and pointed to a gnarled fruit tree strewn round with
wind falls across the clearing.
            "Okay.
Here's what I want you to do. Stare at the sky or contemplate your
navel or something. Then when I give the word, use your power to grab
one of those fruits and toss it to me."
            I
don't know how many hours we spent on that drill. It's more difficult
than it sounds, mustering one's powers from a standing start. Just
when I thought I had it down pat, Aahz switched tactics. He would
engage in a conversation, deliberately leading me on, then would
interrupt me in mid-sentence with his signal. Needless to say, I
failed miserably.
            "Relax,
kid. Look, try it this way. Instead of mustering your power from
scratch each time, create a small space inside yourself and store up
some energy there. Just habitually keep that reserve squirreled away
and ready to cover for you while you get set to level your big guns."
            "What's
a gun?"
            "Never
mind. Just build that reserve and we'll try it again."
            With
this extra bit of advice at my disposal the drill went noticeably
better. Finally Aahz broke off the practice session and put me to
work helping him with his knife practice. Actually I rather enjoyed
this task. It entailed my using my powers to levitate one of the
fruits and send it flying around the clearing until Aahz pegged a
knife into it. As an extra touch of finesse, I would then extract the
knife and float it back to him for another try. The exercise was
monotonous, but I never tired of it. It seemed almost supernatural
the way the shimmering, somersaulting sliver of steel would dart out
to intercept the fruit as Aahz practiced first overhand, then
underhand, now backhand.
            "Stop
it. Skeeve!"
            Aahz's
shout jolted me out of my reverie. Without thinking, I reached out
with my mind and… and the knife stopped in midair! I blinked,
but held it there, floating a foot from the fruit which also hung
suspended in place.
            "Hel-lo!
That's the stuff, Skeeve! Now there's something to have confidence
in!"
            

            "I
did it!" I said, disbelieving my own eyes.
            "You
sure did! That little piece of magik will save your life someday."
            Out
of habit, I floated the knife back to him. He plucked it from the air
and started to tuck it in his belt, then halted, cocking his head to
one side.
            "In
the nick of time, too. Someone's coming."
            "How
can you tell?"
            "Nothing
special. My hearing's a bit better than yours is all. Don't panic. It
isn't the Imps. Hooved beast from the sound of it. No wild animal
moves in that straight a line, or that obviously."
            "What
did you mean, 'in the nick of time'? Aren't we going to hide?"
            "Not
this time." He grinned at me. "You're developing fast. It's
about time you learned a new spell. We have a few days before whoever
it is gets here."
            "Days?"
            Aahz
was adapting rapidly to our dimension, but units of time still gave
him trouble.
            "Run
through those time measurements again," he grumbled.
            "In
seconds, minutes, hours…."
            "Minutes!
We've got a few minutes."
            "Minutes!
I can't learn a new spell in a few minutes!"
            "Sure
you can. This one's easy. All you've got to do is disguise my
features to look like a man."
            "How
do I do that?"
            "The
same way you do everything else, with your mind. First, close your
eyes… close 'em… okay, now picture another face…."
            All
I could think of was Garkin, so I pictured the two faces side by
side.
            "Now
move the new face over mine… and melt away or build up the
necessary features. Like clay… just keep that in the back of
your mind and open your eyes."
            I
looked, and was disappointed.
            "It
didn't work!"
            "Sure
it did."
            He
was looking in the dark mirror which he had fished from his belt
pouch.
            "But
you haven't changed!"
            "Yes
I have. You can't see it because you cast the spell. It's an
illusion, and since your mind knows the truth, it isn't fooled, but
anyone else will be. Garkin, huh? Well, it'll do for now."
            His
identification of the new face took me aback.
            "You
can really see Garkin's face?"
            "Sure,
want to look?"
            He
offered the mirror and grinned. It was a bad joke. One of the first
things we discovered about his dubious status in this world was that
while he could see himself in mirrors, nobody from our world could.
At least I couldn't.
            I
could now hear the sounds of the rider coming.
            "Aahz,
are you sure…."
            "Trust
me, kid. There's nothing to worry about."
            I
was worried. The rider was in view now. He was a tall muscular man
with the look of a warrior about him. This was reinforced by the
massive war unicorn he was riding, laden with weapons and armor.
"Hey, Aahz. Shouldn't we.:."
            "Relax,
kid. Watch this." He stepped forward, raising his arm. "Hello,
stranger! How far to the next town?"
            The
man veered his mount toward us. He half raised his arm in greeting,
then suddenly stiffened. Heaving forward, he squinted at Aahz, then
drew back in terror. "By the Gods! A demon!"
        

        

            

                Chapter Six
            

            
                Attention to detail is the watchword for gleaning information from an unsuspecting witness.
                Insp. Clouseau
            
            THE
warrior's terror did not immobilize him long. In fact, it didn't
immobilize him at all! No sooner did he make his discovery than he
took action. Strangely enough, the action was to lean back in his
saddle and begin rummaging frantically through one of his saddlebags,
a precarious position at best.
            Apparently
I was not the only one to notice the instability of his pose. Aahz
sprang forward with a yell, waving his arms in the unicorn's face.
Being a reasonable creature, the unicorn reared and bolted, dumping
the warrior on his head.
            "By
the Gods!" he bellowed, trying to untangle himself from the
ungraceful heap of arms and weapons. "I've killed men for less!"
            I
decided that if his threat was to be avoided, I should take a
personal hand in the matter. Reaching out with my mind, I seized a
fist-sized rock and propelled it forcefully against his unhelmeted
brow. The man went down like a pole-axed steer.
            For
a long moment Aahz and I considered the fallen man, catching our
breath.
            "'Relax,
Skeeve! This'll be easy, Skeeve! Trust me, Skeeve.' Boy, Aahz, when
you miss a call you don't do it small, do you?"
            "Shut
up, kid!"
            He
was rummaging through his pouch again. "I don't want to shut up,
I want to know what happened to the 'foolproof spell you taught me."
            "I
was kind of wondering that myself." He had produced the mirror
again and was peering into it. "Tell you what, kid. Check his
aura and watch for anything unusual."
            "'Shut
up, kid! Check his aura, kid!' You'd think I was some kind of….
Hey!"
            "What
is it?"
            "His
aura! It's a sort of a reddish yellow except there's a blue patch on
his chest."
            "I
thought so!!" Aahz was across the clearing in a bound, crouching
at the fallen man like a beast of prey. "Look at this!!"
            On
a thong around the man's neck was a crude silver charm depicting a
salamander with one eye in the center of its forehead.
            "What
is it?"
            "I'm
not sure, but I've got a hunch. Now play along with me on this. I
want you to remove the shape warp spell."
            "What
spell?"
            "C'mon,
kid, wake up! The spell that's changing my face."
            "That's
what I mean. What spell?"
            "Now
look, kid! Don't give me a lot of back talk. Just do it! He'll be
waking up soon."
            With
a sigh I shut my eyes and set about the seemingly pointless task. It
was easier this time, imagining Garkin's face, then melting away the
features until Aahz's face was leering at me in my mind's eye. I
opened my eyes and looked at Aahz. He looked like Aahz. Terrific.
            "Now
what?"
            As
if in answer, the warrior groaned and sat up. He shook his head as if
to clear it and opened his eyes. His gaze fell on Aahz, whereupon he
blinked, looked again, and reached for his sword, only to find it
missing. Also missing were his dagger and hand-axe. Apparently Aahz
had not been idle while I was removing the spell.
            Aahz
spoke first.
            "Relax,
stranger. Things are not as they seem."
            The
man sprang to his feet and struck a fighting stance, fists clenched.
            "Beware,
demon!" he intoned hollowly. "I am not without defenses."
            "Oh
yeah? Name three. But like I say. relax. First of all, I'm not a
demon."
            "Know
you, demon, that this charm enables me to look through any spells and
see you as you really are."
            So
that was it! My confidence in my powers came back with a rush.
            "Friend,
though you may not believe me, the sight of that talisman fills me
with joy, for it enables me to prove what I am about to tell you."
            "Do
not waste your lies on me. Your disguise is penetrated! You are a
demon!"
            "Right.
Could you do me one little favor?" Aahz leisurely sat
cross-legged on the ground. "Could you take the charm off for a
minute?"
            "Take
it off?" For a moment the man was puzzled, but he quickly
rallied his forces. "Nay, demon. You seek to trick me into
removing my charm that you might kill me!"
            "Look,
dummy. If we wanted to kill you we could have done it while you were
knocked out cold!"
            For
the first time, the man seemed doubtful. "That is, indeed, a
fact."
            "Then
could you humor me for a moment and take the charm off?"
            The
warrior hesitated, then slowly removed the charm. He looked hard at
Aahz and scowled.
            "That's
strange. You still look like a demon!"
            "Correct,
now let me ask you a question. Am I correct in assuming from your
words you have some knowledge of demons?"
            "I
have been a demon hunter for over fifteen years now," he
declared proudly.
            "Oh,
yeah?" For a minute I was afraid Aahz was going to blow the
whole gambit, but he got himself back under control and continued.
"Then tell me, friend. In your long experience with demons, have
you ever met one who looked like a demon?"
            "Of
course not! They always use their magik to disguise themselves."
            Fat
lot he knew about demons!
            "Then
that should prove my point!"
            "What
point?"
            I
thought for a moment Aahz was going to take him by the shoulders and
shake him. It occurred to me that perhaps Aahz's subtleties were lost
on this world.
            "Let
me try, Aahz. Look, sir. What he's trying to say is that if he were a
demon he wouldn't look like a demon, but he does so he isn't."
            "Oh!"
said the man with sudden understanding.
            "Now
you've lost me," grumbled Aahz.
            "But
if you aren't a demon, why do you look like one?"
            "Ahh
. "" Aahz sighed, "therein lies the story. You see,
I'm accursed!"
            "Accursed?"
            "Yes.
You see, I am a demon hunter like yourself. A rather successful one,
actually. Established quite a name for myself in the field."
            "I
never heard of you," grumbled the man.
            "Well,
we've never heard of you either," I chimed in.
            "You
don't even know my name!"
            "Oh,
I'm sorry." I remembered my manners. "I'm Skeeve, and this…
demon hunter is Aahz."
            "Pleased
to meet you. I am known as Quigley."
            "If
I could continue…."
            "Sorry,
Aahz."
            "As
I was saying, I had achieved a certain renown among the demons due to
my unprecedented success. At times it was rather bothersome, as when
it was learned I was coming, most demons would either flee the
territory or kill themselves."
            "Does
he always brag this much?"
            "He's
just getting started."
            "Anyway…
one day I was closing with a demon, a particularly ugly brute, when
he startled me by addressing me by name. 'Aahz!' says he, 'Before you
strike, you should know your career is at an end!' Of course I
laughed at him, for I had slain demons more fierce than he, sometimes
in pairs. 'Laugh if you will,' he boomed, 'but a conclave of demons
empowered me to deal with you. Whether you kill me or not, you are
doomed to suffer the same end you have visited on so many of us.' I
killed him of course, assuming he was bluffing, but my life has not
been the same ever since."
            "Why
not?"
            "Because
of the curse! When I returned to my horse, my faithful squire here
took one look at me and fainted dead away."
            "I
did no such thing! I mean… it was the heat."
            "Of
course. Skeeve." Aahz winked slyly at Quigley.
            "At
any rate, I soon discovered to my horror that the demon had worked a
spell on me before he expired, causing me to take on the appearance
of a demon to all who beheld me."
            "Fiendish.
Clever, but fiendish."
            "You
see the subtlety of their plan! That I, fiercest of demon hunters, am
now hunted in turn by my fellow humans. I am forced to hide like an
animal with only my son here for companionship."
            "I
thought you said he was your squire."
            "That,
too. Oh, the irony of it all."
            "Gee,
that's tough. I wish I could do something to help."
            "Maybe
you can," Aahz smiled winningly.
            Quigley
recoiled. I found it reassuring that someone else shared my reaction
to Aahz's smile.
            "Urn…
how? I mean, I'm just a demon hunter."
            "Precisely
how you might be of assistance. You see, at the moment we happen to
have several demons following us. It occurs to me we might be of
mutual service to each other. We can provide you with targets, and
you in turn can rid us of a bloody nuisance."
            "They're
bloody?" Quigley was horrified.
            "Just
an expression. Well, what do you say? Is it a deal?"
            "I
dunno. I'm already on a mission and I don't usually take on a new job
until the last one's complete. The misinformed might think I was
quitting or had been scared off or something. That sort of thing is
bad for the reputation."
            "It'd
be no trouble at all," Aahz persisted. "It's not like
you'll have to go out of your way. Just wait right here and they'll
be along."
            "Why
are they following you, anyway?"
            "A
vile magician sent them after us after I was foolish enough to seek
his aid. The curse, you know."
            "Of
course… wait a minute. Was that magician's name Garkin by any
chance?"
            "As
a matter of fact it was. Why? Do you know him?"
            "Why,
he's my mission! That's the man I'm going to kill."
            "Why?"
I interrupted. "Garkin's no demon."
            "But
he consorts with demons, lad." Aahz scowled warningly at me.
"That's enough for any demon hunter. Right, Quigley?"
            "Right.
Remember that, lad."
            I
nodded vigorously at him, feeling suddenly very nervous about this
whole encounter.
            "Where
did you hear about Garkin anyway, Quigley?" Aahz asked casually.
            "Strangely
enough, from an inn-keeper… Isstvan, I think he said his name
was… a bit strange, but a sincere enough fellow. About three
weeks ride back…. but we were talking about your problem. Why
did he send demons after you?"
            "Well,
as I said, I sought him out to try to get him to remove any curse.
What I did not realize was that he was actually in league with demons
himself. He had heard of me, and flatly refused me aid. What is more,
after we left he set some of his demons on our trail."
            "I
see. How many of them did you say there were?"
            "Just
two," Aahz assured him. "We've caught glimpses of them
occasionally."
            "Very
well," concluded Quigley. "I'll do it. I'll assist you in
your battle."
            "That's
fine except for one thing. We won't be here."
            "Why
not? I should think that as a demon hunter you'd welcome the chance
once the odds were even."
            "If
I were here there would be no fight," Aahz stated grandly. "As
I have said, I have a certain reputation among demons. If they saw me
here they would simply flee."
            "I
frankly find that hard to believe," commented Quigley.
            I
was inclined to agree with him, but kept my silence.
            "Well,
I must admit their fear of my charmed sword has a bit to do with
their reluctance to do battle."
            "Charmed
sword?"
            "Yes."
Aahz patted the sword at his side. "This weapon once belonged to
the famous demon hunter Alfans De Clario."
            "Never
heard of him."
            "Never
heard of him? Are you sure you're a demon hunter? Why the man killed
over two hundred demons with this sword. They say it is charmed such
that whomever wields it cannot be killed by a demon."
            "How
did he die?"
            "Knifed
by an exotic dancer. Terrible."
            "Yes,
they're nasty that way. But about the sword, does it work?"
            "It
works as well as any sword, a little point-heavy, maybe, but…."
            "No.
I mean the charm. Does it work?"
            "I
can testify that I haven't been killed by a demon since I started
using it."
            "And
demons actually recognize it and flee from its owner?"
            "Exactly.
Of course, I haven't had occasion to use it for years. Been too busy
trying to get this curse removed. Sometimes I've thought about
selling it, but if I ever get back into business it would be a big
help in… urn… reestablishing my reputation."
            I
suddenly realized what Aahz was up to. Quigley rose to the bait like
a hungry pike-turtle.
            "Hmm…."
he said. "Tell you what. Just to give a hand to a fellow demon
hunter who's down on his luck, I'll take it off your hands for five
gold pieces."
            "Five
gold pieces! You must be joking. I paid three hundred for it. I
couldn't possibly let it go for less than two hundred."
            "Oh,
well, that counts me out. I only have about fifty gold pieces on me."
            "Fifty?"
            "Yes,
I never travel with more than…."
            "But
then again, times have been hard, and seeing as how you would be
using it to do battle against the fiends who put the curse on me….
Yes, I think I could let you have it for fifty gold pieces."
            "But
that's all the money I have."
            "Yes,
but what good is a fat purse if you're torn asunder by a demon?"
            "True
enough. Let me see it."
            He
took the blade and hefted, giving it a few experimental swings.
            "Crummy
balance." He grimaced.
            "You
get used to it."
            "Lousy
steel," he declared, squinting at the blade.
            "Nice
edge on it, though."
            "Well,
my trainer always told me 'If you take care of your sword, it will
take care of you!'"
            "We
must have had the same trainer."
            The
two of them smiled at each other. I felt slightly ill.
            "Still,
I dunno. Fifty pieces of gold is a lot."
            "Just
look at those stones in the handle."
            "I
did. They're fake."
            "Aha!
They're made to look fake. It hides their value."
            "Sure
did a nice job. What kind of stones are they?"
            "Blarney
stones."
            "Blarney
stones?"
            "Yes.
They're said to ensure your popularity with the ladies, if you know
what I mean."
            "But
fifty gold pieces is all the money I have."
            "Tell
you what. Make it forty-five gold pieces and throw in your sword."
            "My
sword?"
            "Of
course. This beauty will take care of you, and your sword will keep
my squire and I from being defenseless in this heathen land."
            "Hmm.
That seems fair enough. Yes, I believe you have made a deal, my
friend."
            They
shook hands ceremoniously and began effecting the trade. I seized the
opportunity to interrupt.
            "Gee,
it's a shame we have to part so soon."
            "Why
so soon?" The warrior was puzzled.
            "No
need to rush off," Aahz assured him, giving me a solid elbow in
the ribs.
            "But
Aahz, we wanted to travel more before sundown and Quigley has to
prepare for battle."
            "What
preparations?" asked Quigley.
            "Your
unicorn," I continued doggedly. "Don't you want to catch
your unicorn?"
            "My
unicorn! All of my armor is on that animal!"
            "Surely
it won't wander far…." Aahz growled.
            "There
are bandits about who would like nothing better than to get their
hands on a good war unicorn." Quigley heaved himself to his
feet. "And I want him at my side to help me fight the demons.
Yes, I must be off. I thank you for your assistance, my friends. Safe
journey until we meet again."
            With
a vague wave of his hand, he disappeared into the woods whistling for
his mount.
            "Now
what was all that about?" Aahz exploded angrily.
            "What,
Aahz?"
            "The
big rush to get rid of him. As gullible as he was, could have traded
him out of his pants or anything else vaguely valuable he might have
had on him. I specifically wanted to get my hands on that charm."
            "Basically
I wanted to see him on his way before he caught on to the flaw in
your little tale."
            "What,
the son-nephew slip? He wouldn't have…."
            "No,
the other thing."
            "What
other thing?"
            I
sighed.
            "Look,
he saw through your disguise because that pendant lets him see
through spells, right?"
            "Right,
and I explained it away saying I was the victim of a demon's curse…."
            "…
that changed your appearance with a spell. But if he could see
through spells, he should be able to see through that spell to see
you as a normal man. Right?"
            "Hmm….
Maybe we'd better be on our way now that we know where Isstvan is."
            But
I was unwilling to let my little triumph go so easily.
            "Tell
me, Aahz. What would you do if we encountered a demon hunter as smart
as me?"
            "That's
easy." He smiled, patting the crossbow. "I'd kill him.
Think about it."
            I
did.
        

        

            

                Chapter Seven
            

            
                Is there anything in the universe more beautiful and protective than the simple complexity of a spider's web?
                Charlotte
            
            I
CLOSED my eyes for concentration. This was more difficult than
drawing energies from the force line directly into my body. I pointed
a finger for focus, pointing at a spot some five yards distant from
me.
            The
idea of drawing energies from a distant location and controlling them
would have seemed impossible to me, until Aahz pointed out it was the
same as the candle-lighting exercise I had already mastered. Now it
did not seem impossible, merely difficult.
            Confidently,
I narrowed my concentration, and in my mind's eye saw a gleaming blue
light appear at the designated point. Without breaking my
concentration, I moved my finger overhead in a slow arc. The light
followed the lead, etching a glowing blue trail in the air behind it.
As it touched the ground again, or where I sensed the ground to be, I
moved my finger again, moving the light into the second arc of the
protective pentagram.
            It
occurred to me that what I was doing was not unlike forming the
normal flat pentagram Garkin had used at the hut. The only difference
being that instead of being inscribed on the floor, this was etched
overhead with its points dipping downward to touch the earth. It was
more an umbrella than a border.
            The
other major difference, I thought as I completed the task, was that I
was doing it. Me. Skeeve. What I had once watched with awe, I was now
performing as routine.
            I
touched the light down in its original place, completing the
pentagram. Quietly pleased, I stood for a moment, eyes closed,
studying the glowing blue lines etched in my mind's eye.
            "Terrific,
kid," came Aahz's voice. "Now what say you damp it down a
bit before we draw every peasant and demon hunter in the country."
            Surprised,
I opened my eyes.
            The
pentagram was still there! Not imagined in my mind, but actually
glowing overhead. Its cold blue light gave an eerie illumination to
the scene that negated the warmth of our little campfire.
            "Sorry,
Aahz." I quickly eased my control on the energy and watched as
the lines of the pentagram faded to invisibility. They were still
there. I could feel their presence in the night air above me. Now,
however, they could not be seen by normal vision.
            More
for the joy of it than out of any lack of confidence, I closed my
eyes again and looked at them. They glowed there in shimmering
beauty, a cooler, reassuring presence to counter the impatience of
the red-gold glow of the force-line spear pointing doggedly toward
tomorrow's path.
            "Sit
down, kid, and finish your lizard-bird."
            We
were out of the forest proper now, but despite the presence of the
nearby road, game was still plentiful and fell ready victim to my
snares. Aahz still refused to join me in the meals, insisting alcohol
was the only thing in this dimension worth consuming, but I dined
frequently and royally.
            "You
know, kid," he said, looking up from his endless
sword-sharpening. "You're really coming along pretty well with
your studies."
            "What
do you mean?" I mumbled through a bone, hoping he would
elaborate.
            "You're
a lot more confident with your magik. You'd better watch your
controls, though. You had enough energy in that pentagram to fry
anything that bumped against it."
            "I
guess I'm still a bit worried about the assassins."
            "Relax,
kid. It's been three days since we set 'em up in that ambush of
Quigley's. Even if he didn't stop 'em, they'll never catch up with us
now."
            "Did
I really summon up that much power?" I urged, eager for praise.
            "Unless
you're actually engaged in magical battle, wards are used as a
warning signal only. If you put too much energy into them it can have
two potentially bad side effects. First, you can draw unnecessary
attention to yourself by jarring or burning an innocent bystander who
blunders into it. Second, if it actually reaches a magical opponent,
it probably won't stop him; just alert him that he has a potentially
dangerous foe in the area."
            "I
thought it was a good thing if I could summon up lots of power."
            "Look,
kid. This isn't a game. You're tapping into some very powerful forces
here. The idea is to strengthen your control, not see how much you
can liberate. If you get too careless with experimenting, you could
end up helpless when the actual crunch comes."
            "Oh,"
I said, unconvinced.
            "Really,
kid. You've got to learn this. Let me try an example. Suppose for a
minute you're a soldier assigned to guard a pass. Your superiors put
you on the post and give you a stack of ten-pound rocks. All you have
to do is watch to see if anyone comes, and if they do, drop a rock on
their head. Are you with me so far?"
            "I
guess so."
            "Fine.
Now it's a long, boring duty, and you have lots of time to think.
You're very proud of your muscles, and decide it's a bit insulting
that you were only given ten-pound rocks. Twenty-pound rocks would be
more effective, and you think you could handle them as easily as the
ten-pound variety. Logical?"
            I
nodded vaguely, still not sure what he was driving at.
            "Just
to prove the point to yourself, you heft a twenty-pound rock, and,
sure enough, you can handle it. Then it occurs to you if you can
handle a twenty-pounder, you should be able to handle a
forty-pounder, or even a fifty-pounder. So you try. Then it happens."
            He
was getting so worked up I felt no need to respond.
            "You
drop it on your foot, or you pull a muscle, or you keel over from
heat exhaustion, or any one of a hundred other things. Then where are
you?"
            He
leveled an accusing finger at me.
            "The
enemy strolls through the pass you're supposed to be guarding and you
can't even lift the original ten-pound rock to stop them. All because
you indulged in needless testing of idiotic muscle power!"
            I
was impressed, and gave the matter serious thought before replying.
            "I
see what you're saying, Aahz, but there's one flaw in your example.
The keyword is 'needless.' Now in my case, it's not a matter of
having a stack of ten-pound rocks that would do the job. I have a
handful of gravel. I'm trying to scrounge around for a rock big
enough to do some damage."
            "True
enough," Aahz retorted, "but the fact remains if you
overextend yourself you won't be able to use what you already have.
Even gravel can be effective if used at the right time. Don't
underrate what you've got or what you're doing. Right now you're
keeping the finder spear going, maintaining the wards, and keeping my
disguise intact. That's a lot for someone of your abilities to be
doing simultaneously. If something happened right now, which would
you drop first?"
            "Urn…."
            "Too
late! We're already dead. You won't have time to ponder energy
problems. That's why you always have to hold some back to deal with
immediate situations while you rally your energies from other
activities. Now do you see?"
            "I
think so, Aahz," I said haltingly. "I'm a bit tired."
            "Well,
think about it. It's important. In the meantime get some sleep and
try to store up your energies. Incidentally, let the finder spear go
for now. You can summon it up again in the morning. Right now, it's
just a needless drain."
            "Okay,
Aahz. How about your disguise?"
            "Hmm…
better keep that. It'll be good practice for you to maintain both
that and the wards in your sleep. Speaking of which…."
            "Right,
Aahz."
            I
drew my acquired assassin's cloak about me for warmth and curled up.
Despite his gruff manner, Aahz was persistent that I get enough sleep
as well as food.
            Sleep
did not come easily, however. I found I was still a bit wound up over
casting the wards.
            "Aahz?"
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "How
would you say my powers right now. stack up against the devils?"
            "What
devils?"
            "The
assassins that were following us."
            "I
keep telling you, kid. Those weren't Deveels, those were Imps."
            "What's
the difference?"
            "I
told you before. Imps are from Imper, and Deveels…."
            "…
are from Deva," I finished for him. "But what does that
mean? I mean, are their powers different or something?"
            "You'd
better believe it. kid." Aahz snorted. "Deveels are some of
the meanest characters you'd ever not want to tangle with. They're
some of the most feared and respected characters in the dimensions."
            '
'Are they warriors? Mercenaries?"
            Aahz
shook his head.
            "Worse!"
he answered. "They're merchants."
            "Merchants?"
            "Don't
sneer, kid. Maybe merchants is too sedate a phrase to describe them.
Traders Supreme is more like it."
            "Tell
me more, Aahz."
            "Well,
history was never my forte, but as near as I can tell, at one time
the entire dimension Deva faced economic ruin. The lands suffered a
plague that affected the elements. Fish could not live in its oceans,
plants could not grow in the soil. Those plants that did grow were
twisted and changed and poisoned the animals. The dimension was no
longer able to support the life of its citizenry."
            I
lay, staring up at the stars as Aahz continued his tale.
            "Dimension
travel, once a frivolous pastime, now became the key to survival.
Many left Deva, migrating singly or in groups to other dimensions.
Their tales of their barren, miserable homeland served as a prototype
for many religious groups' concept of an after-world for evil souls.
            "The
ones who stayed, however, decided to use the power of dimension
travel in a different way. They established themselves as traders,
traveling the dimensions buying and selling wonders. What is common
in one dimension is frequently rare in another. As the practice grew,
they became rich and powerful… also the shrewdest hagglers in
all the dimensions. Their techniques
for driving a hard bargain have been passed down from generation to
generation and polished until now they are without equal. They are
scattered through the dimensions, returning to Deva only occasionally
to visit the Bazaar."
            "The
Bazaar?" I prompted.
            "No
one can travel extensively in all the dimensions in one lifetime. The
Bazaar on Deva is the place the Deveels meet to trade with each
other. An off-dimension visitor there will be sore pressed to not
lose over much, much less hold his own. It's said if you make a deal
with a Deveel, you'd be wise to count your fingers afterward…
then your arms and legs, then your relatives…."
            "I
get the picture. Now how about the Imps?"
            "The
Imps." Aahz said the word as if it tasted bad. "The Imps
are inferior to the Deveels in every way."
            "How
so?"
            "They're
cheap imitations. Their dimension, Imper, lies close to Deva, and the
Deveels bargain with them so often they're almost bankrupt from the
irresistible 'fair deals.' To hold their own, they've taken to aping
the Deveels, attempting to peddle wonders through the dimensions. To
the uneducated, they may seem clever and powerful; in fact,
occasionally they try to pass themselves off as Deveels. Compared to
the masters, however, they're bungling incompetents."
            He
trailed off into silence. I pondered his words, and they prompted
another question.
            "Say,
Aahz?"
            "Hmm?
Yeah, kid?"
            "What
dimension do you come from?"
            "Perv."
            "Does
that make you a Pervert?"
            "No.
That makes me a Pervect. Now shut up!"
            I
assumed he wanted me to go to sleep, and maintained silence for
several minutes. There was just one more question I had to ask,
however, if I was going to get any sleep at all.
            "Aahz?"
            "Keep
it down, kid."
            "What
dimension is this?"
            "Hmmm?
This is Klah, kid. Now for the last time, shut up."
            "What
does that make me, Aahz?"
            There
was no answer.
            "Aahz?"
            I
rolled over to look at him. He was staring out into the darkness and
listening intently.
            "What
is it?"
            "I
think we've got company, kid."
            As
if in response to his words, I felt a tremor in the wards as
something came through.
            I
bounded to my feet as two figures appeared at the edge of the
firelight. The light was dimming, but was sufficient to reveal the
fact that both figures were wearing the hooded cloaks of assassins,
and the gold side was out!
        

        

            

                Chapter Eight
            

            
                In times of crisis, it is of utmost importance not to lose one's head.
                M. Antoinette
            
            THE
four of us stood in frozen tableau for several minutes studying each
other. My mind was racing, but could not focus on the definite course
of action. I decided to follow Aahz's lead and simply stood regarding
the two figures cooly, trying to ignore the two cross-bows leveled
steadily on us.
            Finally,
one of our visitors broke the silence.
            "Well,
Throckwoddle? Aren't you going to invite your friends to sit down?"
            Surprisingly,
this was addressed to me!
            "Ummm…."
I said.
            "Yes,
Throckwoddle," Aahz drawled, turning to me. "And aren't you
going to introduce me to your colleagues?"
            "Urn…."
I repeated.
            "Perhaps
he doesn't remember us," the second figure injected
sarcastically.
            "Nonsense,"
responded the first with equal sarcasm. "His two oldest friends?
Brockhurst and Higgens? How could he possibly not remember our names?
Just because he forgot to share the loot doesn't mean he'd forget
our names. Be fair, Higgens."
            "Frankly,
Brockhurst," responded the other. "I'd rather he remembered
the loot and forgot our names."
            Their
words were stuffy and casual, but the cross-bows never wavered.
            I
was beginning to get the picture. Apparently these were the two Imps
Aahz had assured me couldn't overtake us. Fortunately, it seemed they
thought I was the Imp who had killed Garkin… at least I
thought it was fortunate.
            "Gentlemen,"
Aahz exclaimed, stepping forward. "Let me say what a great
pleasure it is to…."
            He
stopped as Brockhurst's crossbow leapt to his shoulder in one smooth
move.
            "I'm
not sure who you are," he intoned. "But I'd advise you to
stay out of this. This is a private matter between the three of us."
            "Brockhurst,"
interrupted Higgens. "It occurs to me we may be being a bit
hasty in our actions."
            "Thank
you, Higgens," I said, greatly relieved.
            "Now
that we've established contact," he continued, favoring me with
an icy glare, "I feel we should perhaps secure our traveling
companion before we continue this… discussion."
            "I
suppose you're right, Higgens," Brockhurst admitted grudgingly.
"Be a good fellow and fetch him along while I watch these two."
            "I
feel that would be ill-advised on two counts. First, I refuse to
approach that beast alone, and second, that would leave you alone
facing two to one odds, if you get my point."
            "Quite.
Well, what do you suggest?"
            "That
we both fetch our traveling companion and return without delay."
            "And
what is to keep these two from making a hasty departure?"
            "The
fact that we'll be watching them from somewhere in the darkness with
cross-bows. I believe that should be sufficient to discourage them
from making… ah… any movements which might be subject
to misinterpretation."
            "Very
well," Brockhurst yielded grudgingly. "Throckwoddle, I
would strongly suggest you not attempt to avoid us further. While I
don't believe we could be any more upset with you than we already
are, that might actually succeed in provoking us further."
            With
that, the two figures faded back into darkness.
            "What
are we going to do, Aahz?" I whispered frantically.
            He
seemed not to hear me.
            "Imps!"
he chortled, rubbing his hands together gleefully. "What a
stroke of luck!"
            "Aahz!
They're going to kill me!"
            "Hm?
Relax, kid. Like I said. Imps are gullible. If they were really
thinking, they would have shot us down without talking. I haven't met
an Imp yet I couldn't talk circles around."
            He
cocked his head, listening.
            "They're
coming back now. Just follow my lead. Oh yes… I almost forgot.
Drop the disguise on my features when I give you the cue."
            "But
you said they couldn't catch…."
            I
broke off as the two Imps reappeared. They were leading a war unicorn
between them. The hoods of the cloaks were back now, revealing their
features. I was moderately surprised to see they looked human, seedy
perhaps, but human nonetheless. Then I saw Quigley.
            He
was sitting woodenly astride the unicorn, lurching back and forth
with the beast's stride. His eyes were staring fixedly straight ahead
and his right arm was raised as if in salutation. The light of the
fire reflected off his face as if it were glass, and I realized with
horror he was no longer alive, but a statue of some unidentified
substance.
            Any
confidence I might have gained from Aahz's assurances left me in a
rush. Gullible or not, the Imps played for keeps, and any mistake we
made would in all likelihood be our last.
            "Who's
that?" Aahz asked, interrupting my thoughts.
            I
realized I had been dangerously close to showing a betraying sign of
recognition of the statue.
            "There
will be time for that later, if indeed there is a later," said
Higgens, grimly dropping the unicorn's reins and raising his
crossbow.
            "Yes,"
echoed Brockhurst, imitating Higgens's move with his own weapon.
"First there is a matter of an explanation to be settled.
Throckwoddle?"
            "Gentlemen,
gentlemen," said Aahz soothingly, stepping between me and the
cross-bows. "Before you proceed I must insist on introducing
myself properly. If you will but allow me a moment while I remove my
disguise."
            The
sight of the two weapons had rattled me so badly I almost missed my
cue. Fortunately, I managed to gather my scattered senses and closed
my eyes, shakily executing the change features spell to convert Aahz
back to his normal dubious appearance.
            I'm
not sure what reaction I had expected from the Imps at the
transformation, but the one I got surpassed any possible
expectations.
            "By
the Gods below!" gasped Brockhurst.
            "A
Pervert!" gasped Higgens.
            "That's
Pervect!" smiled Aahz, showing all his pointed teeth. "And
don't ever forget it, friend Imps."
            "Yessir!"
they chorused in unison.
            They
were both standing in slack-jawed amazement, cross-bows dangling
forgotten in their hands. From their terrified reactions, I began to
suspect that despite all his bragging, Aahz had perhaps not told me
everything about his dimension or the reputation of its inhabitants.
            Aahz
ignored their stares and plopped down again at his place by the fire.
            "Now
that that's established, why don't you put away those silly
cross-bows and sit down so we can chat like civilized folk. eh?"
            He
gestured impatiently and they hastened to comply.
            I
also resumed a sitting position, not wishing to be the only one left
standing.
            "But…
what are… why are you here… sir… if you don't
mind my asking?" Brockhurst finally managed to get the whole
question out.
            However
incompetent he might be as a demon, he sure knew how to grovel.
            "Ah!"
smiled Aahz. "Therein lies the story."
            I
settled back. This could take a while.
            "I
was summoned across the dimensions barrier by one Garkin, a magician
I have never cared much for. It seems he was expecting some trouble
from a rival and was eager to enlist my aid for the upcoming fracas.
Now, as I said before, I had never been fond of Garkin and was not
particularly wild about joining him. He began growing unpleasant in
his insistence to the point that I considered swaying from my normal
easygoing nature to take action against him, when who should appear
but Throckwoddle here who did me the favor of putting a quarrel into
the old slime-stirrer."
            Aahz
acknowledged me with an airy wave. I tried to look modest.
            "Naturally
we fell to chatting afterward, and he mentioned he was in the
employment of one Isstvan and that his action against Garkin had been
part of an assignment."
            "You
answered questions about an assignment?" Higgens turned to me
aghast.
            "Yes
I did," I snarled at him. "Wouldn't you. considering the
circumstances?"
            "Oh,
yes… of course…." He darted a nervous glance at
Aahz and lapsed into respectful silence again.
            "Anyway,"
Aahz continued, "it occurred to me I owed this fellow Isstvan a
favor for ridding me of a nagging nuisance, so I suggested I
accompany Throckwoddle back to his employer that I might offer him my
services, on a limited basis, of course."
            "You
could have waited for us." Brockhurst glowered at me.
            "Well…
I wanted… you see… I…."
            "I
insisted," Aahz smiled. "You see, my time is quite valuable
and I had no desire to waste it waiting around."
            "Oh,"
said Brockhurst.
            Higgens
was not so easily swayed.
            "You
could have left us a message," he muttered.
            "We
did," Aahz replied. "My ring, in full view on the table. I
see you found it."
            He
pointed an accusing finger at Brockhurst. I noticed for the first
time the Imp was wearing Garkin's ring.
            "This
ring?" Brockhurst started. "Is it yours? I thought it was
part of Garkin's loot that had been overlooked.
            "Yes,
it's mine." Aahz bared his teeth. "I'm surprised you didn't
recognize it. But now that we're united, you will, of course, return
it."
            "Certainly!"
the Imp fumbled in his haste to remove the ring.
            "Careful
there," Aahz cautioned. "You know how to operate it, don't
you? It can be dangerous in ignorant hands."
            "Of
course I know how to operate it," Brockhurst replied in an
injured tone. "You press against the ring with the fingers on
either side of it. I saw one like it at the Bazaar on Deva once."
            He
tossed the ring to Aahz who caught it neatly and slipped it on his
finger. Fortunately it fit. I made a mental note to ask Aahz to let
me try using the ring sometime, now that we knew how it worked.
            "Now
that I've explained about me, how about answering my question,"
Aahz said, leveling a finger at the Quigley statue. "Who is
that?"
            "We
aren't sure ourselves," Higgens admitted.
            "It's
all quite puzzling, really," Brockhurst added.
            "Would
you care to elaborate on that?" Aahz prompted.
            "Well,
it happened about three days back. We were following your trail to…
um… with hopes of reuniting our group. Suddenly this warrior
gallops out of the brush ahead of us and bars our path. It was as if
he knew we were coming and was waiting for us. 'Isstvan was right!'
he shouts, 'This region does abound with demons!' "
            "Isstvan?"
I said, doing my best to look puzzled.
            "That's
what he said. It surprised us, too. I mean, here we are working for
Isstvan, and were set upon by a man claiming to be sent by the same
employer. Anyway, then he says, 'Behold the weapon of your doom!' and
draws a sword."
            "What
kind of sword was it?" Aahz asked innocently.
            "Nothing
special. Actually a little substandard from all we could see. Well,
it put us in a predicament. We had to defend ourselves, but were
afraid to harm him on the off-chance he really was working for
Isstvan."
            "What
did you do?" I asked.
            "Frankly,
we said 'to heck with it' and took the easy way out. Higgens here
bounced one of his stone balls off the guy's forehead and froze him
in place. We've been dragging him along ever since. We figure we'll
dump him in Isstvan's lap and let him sort it out."
            "A
wise solution," commented Aahz.
            They
inclined their heads graciously at the compliment.
            "One
question I'd like to ask," I interjected. "How were you
able to overtake us, encumbered as you were?"
            "Well,
it was no small problem. We had little hope of overtaking you as it
was, and with our new burden, it appeared it would be impossible,"
Brockhurst began.
            "We
were naturally quite eager to… ah… join you, so we
resorted to desperate measures," Higgens continued. "We
took a side trip to Twixt and sought the aid of the Deveel there. It
cost us a pretty penny, but he finally agreed to teleport our group
to the trail ahead of you, allowing us to make our desired contact."
            "Deveel?
What Deveel?" Aahz interrupted.
            "Frumple.
The Deveel at Twixt. The one who…."
            Brockhurst
broke off suddenly, his eyes narrowing suspiciously. He shot a dark
glance at Higgens, who was casually reaching for his crossbow.
            "I'm
surprised Throckwoddle hasn't mentioned Frumple to you," Higgens
purred. "After all, he's the one who told us about him."
        

        

            

                Chapter Nine
            

            
                To function efficiently, any group of people or employees must have faith in their leader.
                Capt. Bugh (retired.)
            
            "YES,
Throckwoddle." If anything, Aahz's voice was even more menacing
than the Imp's. "Why didn't you tell me about the Deveel?"
            "It…
ah… must have slipped my mind," I mumbled.
            With
a massive exertion of self-control, I shot my most withering glare at
the Imps, forcing myself to ignore the menace of the cross-bows. I
was rewarded by seeing them actually look guilty and avoid my gaze.
            "Slipped
your mind! More likely you were trying to hold back a bit of
information from me," Aahz said accusingly. "Well, now that
it's out, let's have the rest of it. What about this Deveel?"
            "Ask
Brockhurst," I grumbled. "He seems to be eager to talk
about it."
            "Well,
Brockhurst?" Aahz turned to him.
            The
Imp gave me an apologetic shrug as he started.
            "Well,
I guess I've already told you most of it. There's a Deveel, Frumple,
in residence in Twixt. He goes under the cover of Abdul the Rug
Merchant, but he actually maintains a thriving trade in the usual
Deva manner, buying and selling across the dimensions."
            "What's
he doing in Klah?" Aahz interrupted. "I mean there's not
much business here. Isn't it a little slow for a Deveel's taste?"
            "Well.
Throckwoddle said…." Brockhurst broke off and shot me a
look.
            "Go
on, tell him." I tried to sound resigned.
            "Well,"
the Imp continued, "rumor has it that he was exiled from Deva
and is in hiding here, ashamed to show his face in a major
dimension."
            "Barred
from Deva? Why? What did he do?"
            I
was glad Aahz asked. It would have sounded strange coming from me.
            "Throckwoddle
wouldn't tell us. Said Frumple was sensitive on the subject and we
shouldn't bring it up."
            "Well,
Throckwoddle?" Aahz turned to me.
            I
was so caught up in the story it took me a few beats before I
remembered that I really didn't know.
            "Urn…
I can't tell you," I said.
            "What?"
Aahz scowled.
            I
began to wonder how much he was caught up in the story and had lost
track of the realities of the situation.
            "I
learned his secret by accident and hold it as a personal confidence,"
I said haughtily. "During our travels these last few days, I've
learned some rather interesting items about you and hold them in the
same esteem. I trust you will respect my silence on the matter of
Frumple as I expect others to respect my silence about those matters
pertaining to you."
            "Okay,
okay. You've made your point," Aahz conceded.
            "Say…
um… Throckwoddle," Higgens interrupted. "I would
suggest we all shed our disguises like our friend Perver… um,
Pervect here has. No sense in using up our energies keeping up false
faces among friends."
            His
tone was casual, but he sounded suspicious. I noticed he had not
taken his hand off his crossbow.
            "Why?"
argued Brockhurst. "I prefer to keep my disguise on at all times
when in another dimension.
            Lessens
the chance of forgetting to put it on at a crucial moment."
            "I
think Higgens is right," Aahz stated before I could support
Brockhurst. "I for one like to see the true faces of the people
I'm talking to."
            "Well,"
grumbled Brockhurst, "if everyone is going to insist."
            He
closed his eyes in concentration, and his features began to shimmer
and melt.
            I
didn't watch the whole process. My mind was racing desperately back
to Garkin's hut, when Aahz held up the charred face of the assassin.
I hastily envisioned my own face next to it and began working, making
certain obvious modifications to its appearance to repair the fire
damage.
            When
I was done, I snuck a peek out of one eye. The other two had changed
already. My attention was immediately drawn to their complexion.
Theirs was a pinkish red, while mine wasn't. I hastily re-closed my
eye and made the adjustment.
            Satisfied
now, I opened my eyes and looked about me. The other two Imps now
Showed the apparently characteristic pointed ears and chins. Aahz
looked like Aahz. The situation had completely reversed since the
Imps had arrived. Instead of being normal surrounded by three
disguised demons, I was now surrounded by three demons while I was
disguised. Terrific.
            "Ahh.
That's better," chortled Aahz.
            "You
know, Throckwoddle," Higgens said, cocking a head at me. "For
a moment there in the firelight you looked different. In fact…."
            "Come,
come, gentlemen," Aahz interrupted. "We have serious
matters to discuss. Does Isstvan know about Frumple's existence?"
            "I
don't believe so," answered Brockhurst. "If he did, he
would have either enlisted him or had him assassinated."
            "Good,"
exclaimed Aahz. "He could very well be the key to our plot."
            "What
plot? "I asked.
            "Our
plot against Isstvan, of course."
            "What?"
exclaimed Higgens, completely distracted from me now. "Are you
insane?"
            "No,"
retorted Aahz. "But Isstvan is. I mean, think! Has he been
acting particularly stable?"
            "No,"
admitted Brockhurst. "But then neither has any other magician
I've met, present company included."
            "Besides,"
Higgens interrupted, "I thought you were on your way to help
him."
            "That's
before I heard your story," Aahz pointed out. "I'm not
particularly eager to work for a magician who pits his own employees
against each other."
            "When
did he do that?" Higgens asked.
            Aahz
made an exasperated gesture.
            "Think,
gentlemen! Have you forgotten our stony-faced friend there?" He
jerked a thumb at the figure on the unicorn. "If you recall your
tale correctly, his words seemed to imply he had been sent by Isstvan
to intercept you."
            "That's
right," said Brockhurst. "So?"
            "What
do you mean, 'So?' " Aahz exploded. "That's it! Isstvan
sent him to kill you. Either he was trying to cut his overhead by
assassinating his assassins before payday, or he's so unstable
mentally he's lashing out blindly at everyone, including his own
allies. Either way he doesn't sound like the most benevolent of
employers."
            "You
know, I believe he has a point there," I observed, determined to
be of some assistance in this deception.
            "But
if that's true, what are we to do?" asked Higgens.
            "Well,
I don't have a firm plan of action," Aahz admitted. "But I
have some general ideas that might help."
            "Such
as?" prompted Brockhurst.
            "You
go back to Isstvan. Say nothing at all of your suspicions. If you do,
he might consider you dangerous and move against you immediately.
What's more, refuse any new assignments. Find some pretext to stay as
close to him as possible. Learn all about his habits and weaknesses,
but don't do anything until we get there."
            "Where
are you going?" asked Higgens.
            "We
are going to have a little chat with Frumple. If we're going to move
against Isstvan, the support of a Deveel could be invaluable."
            "And
probably unobtainable," grumpled Brockhurst. "I've never
known a Deveel yet to take sides in a fight. They prefer being in a
position to sell to both sides."
            "What
do you mean 'we'?" asked Higgens. "Isn't Throckwoddle
coming with us? "
            "No.
I've developed a fondness for his company. Besides, if he doesn't
agree to help us, it would come in handy to have an assassin close
by. Frumple's too powerful to run the risk of leaving him unallied to
help Isstvan."
            As
Aahz was speaking, Brockhurst casually leaned back out of his line of
vision and silently mouthed the word "Pervert" at Higgens.
Higgens quietly nodded his agreement, and they both shot me
sympathetic glances.
            "Well,
what do you think?" Aahz asked in conclusion.
            "Hmm…
what do we do with him?" Higgens indicated the Quigley statue
with a jerk of his head.
            "We'll
take him with us," I chimed in hastily.
            "Of
course!" agreed Aahz, shooting me a black look. "If you two
took him back to Isstvan, he might guess you suspected his
treachery."
            "Besides,"
I added, "maybe we can revive him and convince him to join us in
our battle."
            "I
suppose you'll be wanting the antidote then." Higgens sighed,
fishing a small vial from inside his cloak and tossing it to me.
"Just sprinkle a little on him and he'll return to normal in a
few minutes. Watch yourself, though. There's something strange about
him. He seemed to be able to see right through our disguises."
            "Where's
the sword you were talking about?" Aahz asked.
            "It's
in his pack. Believe me, it's junk. The only reason we brought it
along was that he seemed to put so much stock in it. It'll be curious
to find out what he thought it was when we revive him."
            "Well,
I believe that just about covers everything," Brockhurst sighed.
"I suggest we get some sleep and start on our respective
journeys first thing in the morning."
            "I
suggest you start on your journey now," Aahz said pointedly.
            "Now?"
Brockhurst exclaimed.
            "But
it's the middle of the night," Higgens pointed out.
            "Might
I remind you gentlemen that the longer you are away from Isstvan, the
greater the chances are he'll send another assassin after you."
            "He's
right, you know," I said thoughtfully.
            "I
suppose so," grumbled Higgens.
            "Well,"
said Brockhurst, rising to his feet, "I guess we'll be on our
way then as soon as we divide Garkin's loot."
            "On
the contrary," stated Aahz. "Not only do we not divide the
loot, I would suggest you give us whatever funds you have at your
disposal."
            "What?"
they chorused, their cross-bows instantly in their hands again.
            "Think,
gentlemen," Aahz said soothingly. "We'd be trying to
bargain with a Deveel for his support. As you yourselves have pointed
out, they are notoriously unreasonable in their prices. I would hate
to think we might fail in our negotiations for a lack of funds."
            There
was a pregnant silence as the Imps sought to find a hole in his
logic.
            "Oh,
very well," Brockhurst conceded at last, lowering his crossbow
and reaching for his purse.
            "I
still don't think it will do any good," Higgens grumbled,
imitating Brockhurst's move. "You probably couldn't buy off a
Deveel if you had the Gnomes themselves backing you."
            They
passed the purses over to Aahz, who hefted them judiciously before
tucking them into his own waist band.
            "Trust
me, gentlemen." Aahz smiled. "We Pervects have methods of
persuasion that are effective even on Deveels."
            The
Imps shuddered at this and began edging away.
            "Well…
umm… I guess we'll see you later," Higgens mumbled.
"Watch yourself, Throckwoddle."
            "Yes,"
added Brockhurst. "And be sure when you're done, the Deveel is
either with us or dead."
            I
tried to think of something to say in return, but before anything
occurred to me they were gone.
            Aahz
cocked an eyebrow at me and I held up a restraining hand until I felt
them pass through the wards. I signaled him with a nod.
            "They've
gone," I said.
            "Beautiful!"
exclaimed Aahz gleefully. "Didn't I tell you they were
gullible?"
            For
once I had to admit he was right.
            "Well,
get some sleep now, kid. Like I said before, tomorrow's going to be a
busy day, and all of a sudden it looks like it's going to be even
busier."
            I
complied, but one question kept nagging at me.
            "Aahz?"
            "Yeah,
kid."
            "What
dimension do the Gnomes come from?"
            "Zoorik,"
he answered.
            On
that note, I went to sleep.
        

        

            

                Chapter Ten
            

            
                Man shall never reach his full capacity while chained to the earth. We must take wing and conquer the heavens.
                Icarus
            
            "ARE
you sure we're up to handling a Deveel, Aahz?" I was aware I had
asked the question countless times in the last few days, but I still
needed reassurance.
            "Will
you relax, kid?" Aahz growled. "I was right about the Imps,
wasn't I?"
            "I
suppose so," I admitted hesitantly.
            I
didn't want to tell Aahz, but I wasn't that happy with the Imp
incident. It had been a little too close for my peace of mind. Since
the meeting, I had been having recurring nightmares involving Imps
and cross-bows.
            "Look
at it this way, kid. With any luck this Frumple character will be
able to restore my powers. That'd take you off the hotseat."
            "I
guess so," I said without enthusiasm.
            He
had raised this point several times since learning about Frumple.
Each time he did, it gave me the same feeling of discomfort.
            "Something
bothering you, kid?" Aahz asked, cocking his head at me.
            "Well…
it's… Aahz, if you do get your powers back, will you still
want me as an apprentice?"
            "Is
that what's been eating at you?" he seemed genuinely surprised.
"Of course I'll still want you. What kind of a magician do you
think I am? I don't choose my apprentices lightly."
            "You
wouldn't feel I was a burden?"
            "Maybe
at first, but not now. You were in at the start of this Isstvan
thing; you earned the right to be in on the end of it."
            Truth
to tell, I wasn't all that eager to be there when Aahz confronted
Isstvan, but that seemed to be the price I would have to pay if I was
going to continue my association with Aahz.
            "Urn…
Aahz?"
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "Just
one more question?"
            "Promise?"
            "How's
that?"
            "Nothing.
What's the question, kid."
            "If
you get your powers back, and I'm still your apprentice, which
dimension will we live in?"
            "Hmm.
To be honest, kid, I hadn't really given it much thought. Tell ya
what, we'll burn that bridge when we come to it, okay?"
            "Okay,
Aahz."
            I
tried to get my mind off the question. Maybe Aahz was right. No sense
worrying about the problem until we knew for sure it existed. Maybe
he wouldn't get his powers back. Maybe I'd get to be the one to fight
Isstvan after all. Terrific.
            "Hey!
Watch the beast, kid!"
            Aahz's
voice broke my train of thought. We were leading the war unicorn
between us, and the beast chose this moment to act up.
            It
nickered and half-reared, then planted its feet and tossed its head.
            "Steady…
ow!"
            Aahz
extended a hand trying to seize its bridle and received a solid rap
on the forearm from the unicorn's horn for his trouble.
            "Easy,
Buttercup," I said soothingly. "There's a good boy."
            The
beast responded to my coaxings, first by settling down, pawing the
ground nervously, then finally by rubbing his muzzle against me.
            Though
definitely a friendly gesture, this is not the safest thing to have a
unicorn do to you. I ducked nimbly under his swinging horn and cast
about me quickly. Snatching an orange flower from a nearby bush, I
fed it to him at an arm's length. He accepted the offering and began
to munch it contentedly.
            "I
don't think that beast likes demons," Aahz grumbled sullenly,
rubbing his bruised arm.
            "It
stands to reason," I retorted. "I mean, he was a demon
hunter's mount, you know."
            "Seems
to take readily enough to you, though," Aahz observed. "Are
you sure you're not a virgin?"
            "Certainly
not," I replied in my most injured tones. Actually I was, but I
would have rather been fed to vampire-slugs than admit it to Aahz.
            "Speaking
of demon hunters, you'd better check on our friend there," Aahz
suggested. "It could get a bit grisly if an arm or something
broke off before we got around to restoring him."
            I
hastened to comply. We had rigged a drag-litter for the
Quigley-statue to avoid having to load and unload him each night, not
to mention escaping the chore of saddling and unsaddling the war
unicorn. The bulk of the gear and armor was sharing the drag-litter
with the Quigley-statue, a fact which seemed to make the unicorn
immensely happy. Apparently it was far easier to drag all that weight
than to carry it on one's back. "He seems to be okay, Aahz."
I reported.
            "Good,"
he sneered. "I'd hate to think of anything happening to him,
accidental-like."
            Aahz
was still not happy with our traveling companions. He had only
grudgingly given in to my logic for bringing them along as opposed to
leaving them behind. I had argued that they could be of potential
assistance in dealing with the Deveel, or at least when we had our
final showdown with Isstvan.
            In
actuality, that wasn't my reasoning at all. I felt a bit guilty about
having set Quigley up to get clobbered by the Imps and didn't want to
see any harm befall him because of it.
            

            "It
would make traveling a lot easier if we restored him," I
suggested hopefully.
            "Forget
it, kid."
            "But
Aahz…."
            "I
said forget it! In case you've forgotten, that particular gentleman's
major pastime seems to consist of seeking out and killing demons. Now
I'm aware my winning personality may have duped you into overlooking
the fact, but I am a demon. As such, I am not about to accept a
living, breathing, and most importantly, functioning demon hunter as
a traveling companion."
            "We
fooled him before!" I argued.
            "Not
on a permanent basis. Besides, when would you practice your magik if
he was restored? Until we meet with the Deveel, you're still our best
bet against Isstvan."
            I
wished he would stop mentioning that. It made me incredibly
uncomfortable when he did. Besides, I couldn't think of a good
argument to it.
            "I
guess you're right, Aahz," I admitted.
            "You'd
better believe I'm right. Incidentally, since we seem to be stopped
anyway, this is as good a time as any for your next lesson."
            My
spirits lifted. Besides my natural eagerness to extend my magical
abilities, Aahz's offer contained an implied statement that he was
pleased with my progress so far in earlier lessons.
            "Okay,
Aahz," I said, looping the unicorn's reins around a nearby bush.
"I'm ready."
            "Good,"
smiled Aahz, rubbing his hands together. "Today we're going to
teach you to fly."
            My
spirits fell again.
            "Fly?"
I asked.
            "That's
what I said, kid. Fly. Exciting, isn't it?"
            "Why?"
            "Whadya
mean, why? Ever since we first cast jealous eyes on the creatures of
the air we've wanted to fly. Now you're getting a chance to learn.
That's why it's exciting!"
            "I
meant, why should I want to learn to fly?"
            "Well…
because everybody wants to fly."
            "I
don't," I said emphatically.
            "Why
not?"
            "I'm
afraid of heights, for one thing," I answered.
            "That
isn't enough reason to not learn," Aahz scowled.
            "Well,
I haven't heard any reasons yet as to why I should." I scowled
back at him.
            "Look,
kid," Aahz began coaxingly, "It isn't so much flying as
floating on air."
            "The
distinction escapes me," I said dryly.
            "Okay,
kid. Let me put it to you this way. You're my apprentice, right?"
            "Right,"
I agreed suspiciously.
            "Well,
I'm not going to have an apprentice that can't fly! Get me!?" he
roared.
            "All
right, Aahz. How does it work?" I knew when I was beaten.
            "That's
better. Actually it doesn't involve anything you don't already know.
You know how to levitate objects, right?"
            I
nodded slowly, puzzled.
            "Well,
all flying is is levitating yourself."
            "How's
that again?"
            "Instead
of standing firm on the ground and lifting an object, you push
against the ground with your will and lift yourself."
            "But
if I'm not touching the ground, where do I draw my power from?"
            "From
the air! C'mon, kid, you're a magician, not an elemental."
            "What's
an elemental?"
            "Forget
it. What I meant was you aren't bound to any of the four elements,
you're a magician. You control them, or at least influence them and
draw your power from them. When you're flying, all you have to do is
draw your power from the air instead of the ground."
            "If
you say so, Aahz," I said doubtfully.
            "Okay,
first locate a force line."
            "But
we left it when we started off to see the Deveel," I argued.
            "Kid,
there are lots of force lines. Just because we left one of the ground
force lines doesn't mean we're completely out of touch. Check for a
force line in the air."
            "In
the air?"
            "Believe
me, kid. Check."
            I
sighed and closed my eyes. Turning my face skyward, I tried to
picture the two-headed spear. At first I couldn't do it, then
realized with a start I was seeing a spear, but a different spear. It
wasn't as bright as the last spear had been, but glowed softly with
icy blues and whites.
            "I
think I've got one, Aahz!" I gasped.
            "It's
blue and white, right?" Aahz sneered sarcastically.
            "Yes,
but it's not as bright as the last one."
            "It's
probably further away. Oh well, it's close enough for you to draw
energy from. Well, give it a try, kid. Hook into that force line and
push the ground away. Slowly now."
            I
did as I was instructed, reaching out with my mind to tap the
energies of that icy vision. The surge of power I felt was unlike any
I had experienced before. Whereas before when I summoned the power I
felt warm and swollen with power, this time I felt cool and relaxed.
The power flow actually made me feel lighter.
            "Push
away, kid," came Aahz's voice. "Gently!"
            Lazily
I touched the ground with my mind, only casually aware of the curious
sensation of not physically feeling anything with my feet.
            "Open
your eyes, kid! Adjust your trim."
            Aahz's
voice came to me from a strange location this time. Surprised, my
eyes popped open.
            I
was floating some ten feet above the ground at an angle that was
rapidly drifting toward a horizontal position. I was flying!
            The
ground came at me in a rush. I had one moment of dazed puzzlement
before it slammed into me with jarring reality.
            I
lay there for a moment forcing air back into my lungs and wondering
if I had broken anything.
            "Are
you okay, kid?" Aahz was suddenly looming over me.' 'What
happened anyway?"
            "I…
I was flying!" I forced the words at last.
            "Yeah,
so? Oh, I get it. You were so surprised you forgot to maintain the
energy flow, right?"
            I
nodded, unable to speak.
            "Of
all the dumb… look, kid, when I tell you you're going to fly,
believe it!"
            "But…."
            "Don't
'but' me! Either you believe in me as a teacher or you don't! There's
no buts about it!"
            "I'm
sorry, Aahz." I was getting my breath back again.
            "Ahh…
didn't mean to jump on you like that, kid, but you half scared me to
death with that fall. You've got to understand we're starting to get
into some pretty powerful magik now. You've got to expect them to
work. A surprise-break like that last one with the wrong thing could
get you killed, or me for that matter."
            "I'll
try to remember, Aahz. Shall I try it again?"
            "Just
take it easy for a few minutes, kid. Flying can take a lot out of
you, even without the fall."
            I
closed my eyes and waited for my head to stop whirling.
            "Aahz?
"I said finally.
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "Tell
me about Perv."
            "What
about it?"
            "It
just occurred to me, those Imps seemed scared to death when they
realized you were a Pervect. What kind of a reputation does your
dimension have?"
            "Well,"
he began, "Perv is a self-sufficient, stand-offish dimension. We
may not have the best fighters, but they're close enough that other
dimension travelers give them lots of room. Technology and magik
exist side by side and are intertwined with each other. All in all it
makes a pretty powerful little package."
            "But
why should anyone be afraid of that?"
            "As
I said, Perv has a lot going for it. One of the side effects of
success is an abundance of hangers-on. There was a time when we were
close to being swamped with refugees and immigrants from other
dimensions. When they got to be too much of a nuisance, we put a stop
to it."
            "How?"
I pushed.
            "First,
we took the non-contributing outsiders and ran 'em out. Then, for an
added measure of insurance, we encouraged the circulation of rumors
of certain antisocial attitudes of Pervects toward those from other
dimensions."
            "What
kind of rumors?"
            "Oh,
the usual. That we eat our enemies, torture folks for amusement and
have sexual practices that are considered dubious by any dimension's
standards. Folks aren't sure how much is truth and how much is
exaggeration, but they're none too eager to find out firsthand."
            "How
much of it is true, Aahz?" I asked propping myself up on one
elbow.
            He
grinned evilly at me.
            "Enough
to keep 'em honest."
            I
was going to ask what it took to be considered a contributing
immigrant, but decided to let it pass for a while.
        

        

            

                Chapter Eleven
            

            
                One of the joys of travel is visiting new towns and meeting new people.
                G. Khan
            
            "AH!
What a shining example of civilization!" chortled Aahz
exuberantly as he peered about him, delighted as a child on his first
outing.
            We
were sauntering casually down one of the lesser used streets of
Twixt. Garbage and beggars were strewn casually about while beady
rodent eyes, human and inhuman, studied us from the darkened doors
and windows. It was a cluster of buildings crouched around an army
outpost which was manned more from habit than necessity. The soldiers
we occasionally encountered had degenerated enough from the crisp
recruiting poster model that it was frequently difficult to tell
which seemed more menacing and unsavory, the guards or the obviously
criminal types they were watching.
            "If
you ask me, it looks more like mankind at its worst!" I mumbled
darkly.
            "That's
what I said, a shining example of civilization!"
            There
wasn't much I could say to that, not feeling like getting baited into
another one of Aahz's philosophical lectures.
            "Aahz,
is it my imagination or are people staring at us?"
            "Relax,
kid. In a town like this the citizens will always instinctively size
up a stranger. They're trying to guess if we're victims or
victimizers. Our job is to make sure they think we're in the second
category."
            To
illustrate his point he suddenly whirled and crouched like a cat,
glaring back down the street with a hand on his sword hilt.
            There
was sudden movement at the windows and doorways as roughly a dozen
half-seen forms melted back into the darkness.
            One
figure didn't move. A trollop leaning on a windowsill, her arms
folded to display her ill-covered breasts, smiled invitingly at him.
He smiled and waved. She ran an insolent tongue tip slowly around her
lip and winked broadly.
            "Um…Aahz?"
            "Yeah,
kid?" he replied, without taking his eyes from the girl.
            "I
hate to interrupt, but you're supposed to be a doddering old man,
remember?"
            Aahz
was still disguised as Garkin, a fact which seemed to have
momentarily slipped his mind.
            "Hmm?
Oh, yeah. I guess you're right, kid. It doesn't seem to bother
anybody else though. Maybe they're used to feisty old men in this
town."
            "Well,
could you at least stop going for your sword? That's supposed to be
our surprise weapon."
            Aahz
was wearing the assassin's cloak now, which he quickly pulled forward
again to hide his sword.
            "Will
you get off my back, kid? Like I said, nobody seems to be paying any
attention."
            "Nobody?"
I jerked my head pointedly toward the girl in the window.
            "Her?
She's not paying any more attention to us than she is anyone else on
the street."
            "Really?"
            "Well,
if she is, it's more because of you than because of me."
            "Me?
C'mon, Aahz."
            "Don't
forget, kid, you're a pretty impressive person now."
            I
blinked. That hadn't occurred to me. I had forgotten I was disguised
as Quigley now.
            We
had hidden the demon hunter just outside of town… well,
actually we buried him. I had been shocked by the suggestion at
first, but as Aahz pointed out, the statue didn't need any air and it
was the only sure fire way we had of ensuring he wouldn't be found by
anyone else.
            Even
the war unicorn following us, now fully saddled and armored, did not
help me keep my new identity in mind. We had been traveling together
too long now.
            I
suppose I should have gotten some satisfaction from the fact I could
now maintain not only one, but two disguises without consciously
thinking about it. I didn't. I found it unnerving that I had to
remember other people were seeing me differently than I was seeing
myself.
            I
shot a glance at the trollop. As our eyes met, her smile broadened
noticeably. She displayed her increased enthusiasm by leaning further
out of the window until I began to worry about her falling out…
of the window or her dress.
            "What
did I tell you, kid!" Aahz slapped me enthusiastically on the
shoulder and winked lewdly.
            "I'd
rather she was attracted to me for me as I really am," I
grumbled darkly.
            "The
price of success, kid," Aahz responded philosophically. "Well,
no matter. We're here on business, remember?"
            "Right,"
I said firmly.
            I
turned to continue our progress, and succeeded only in whacking Aahz
soundly in the leg with my sword.
            "Hey
.'Watch it, kid!"
            It
seemed there was more to this sword-carrying than met the casual eye.
            "Sorry,
Aahz," I apologized. "This thing's a bit point-heavy."
            "Yeah?
How would you know?" my comrade retorted.
            "Well…
you said…."
            "I
said? That won't do it, kid. What's point-heavy for me may not be
point-heavy for you. Weapon balance is a personal thing."
            "Well…
I guess I'm just not used to wearing a sword," I admitted.
            "It's
easy. Just forget you're wearing it. Think of it as part of you."
            "I
did. That's when I hit you."
            "Hmm…
we'll go into it more later."
            Out
of the corner of my eye, I could still see the trollop. She clapped
her hands in silent applause and blew me a kiss. I suddenly realized
she thought I had deliberately hit Aahz, a premeditated act to quell
a rival. What's more, she approved of the gesture.
            I
looked at her again, more closely this time. Maybe later I would give
Aahz the slip for a while and…
            "We've
got to find Frumple." Aahz's voice interrupted my wandering
thoughts.
            "Hmm…?
Oh. How, Aahz?"
            "Through
guile and cunning. Watch this, kid."
            So
saying, he shot a quick glance up and down the street. A pack of
three urchins had just rounded the corner, busily engaged in a game
of keep-away with one of the group's hat.
            "Hey!"
Aahz hailed them. "Where can I find the shop of Abdul the Rug
Dealer?"
            "Two
streets up and five to the left," they called back, pointing the
direction.
            "See,
kid? That wasn't hard."
            "Terrific,"
I responded, unimpressed.
            "Now
what's wrong, kid?"
            "I
thought we were trying to avoid unnecessary attention."
            "Don't
worry, kid."
            "Don't
worry!? We're on our way to meet a Deveel on a supposedly secret
mission, and you seem to be determined to make sure everybody we see
notices us and knows where we're going."
            "Look,
kid, how does a person normally act when they come into a new town?"
            "I
don't know," I admitted. "I haven't been in that many
towns."
            "Well,
let me sketch it out for you. They want to be noticed. They carry on
and make lots of noise. They stare at the women and wave at people
they've never seen before."
            "But
that's what we've been doing."
            "Right!
Now do you understand?"
            "No."
            Aahz
heaved an exasperated sigh.
            "C'mon,
kid. Think a minute, even if it hurts. We're acting like anyone else
would walking into a strange town, so nobody will look at us twice.
They won't pay any more attention to us than they would any other
newcomer. Now if we followed your suggestion and came skulking into
town, not talking to anyone or looking at anything, and tried real
hard not to be noticed, then
everyone and his kid brother would zero in on us trying to figure out
what we were up to. Now do you understand?"
            "I…
I think so."
            "Good…
cause there's our target."
            I
blinked and looked in the direction of his pointing finger. There
squatting between a blacksmith's forge and a leather worker's
displays was the shop. As I said, I was new to city life, but I would
have recognized it as a rug merchant's shop even if it was not
adorned with a large sign proclaiming it such. The entire front of
the shop was lavishly decorated with colorful geometric patterns
apparently meant to emulate the patterns of the rugs inside. I guess
it was intended to look rich and prosperous. I found it unforgivably
gaudy.
            I
had been so engrossed in our conversation, I had momentarily
forgotten our mission. With the shop now confronting us at close
range, however, my nervousness came back in a rush.
            "What
are we going to do, Aahz?"
            "Well,
first of all I think I'm going to get a drink."
            "A
drink?"
            "Right.
If you think I'm going to match wits with a Deveel on an empty
stomach, you've got another think coming."
            "A
drink?" I repeated, but Aahz was gone, striding purposefully
toward a nearby tavern. There was little for me to do but follow,
leading the unicorn.
            The
tavern was a dingy affair, even to my rustic eye. A faded awning
sullenly provided shade for a small cluster of scarred wooden tables.
Flies buzzed around a cat sleeping on one of the tables… at
least I like to assume it was asleep.
            As
I tied the unicorn to one of the awning supports, I could hear Aahz
bellowing at the inn keep for two of his largest flagons of wine. I
sighed, beginning to despair that Aahz would never fully adapt to his
old-man disguise. The inn keep did not seem to notice any
irregularity between Aahz's appearance and his drinking habits,
however. It occurred to me that Aahz might be right in his theories
of how to go unnoticed. City people seemed to be accustomed to loud
rude individuals of any age.
            "Sit
down, kid," Aahz commanded. "You're making me nervous
hovering around like that."
            "I
thought we were going to talk with the Deveel," I grumbled,
sinking into a chair.
            "Relax,
kid. A few minutes one way or the other won't make that much
difference. Besides, look!"
            A
young, well-dressed couple was entering the rug shop.
            "See?
We couldn't have done any business anyway. At least not until they
left. The kind of talk we're going to have can't be done in front of
witnesses. Ahh!"
            The
inn-keeper had arrived, clinking the two flagons of wine down on the
table in a lackluster manner.
            "About
time!" Aahz commented, seizing a flagon in each hand and
immediately draining one. "Aren't you going to have anything,
kid?"
            A
toss of his head and the second flagon was gone.
            "While
my friend here makes up his mind, bring me two more… and make
them decent sizes this time if you have to use a bucket!"
            The
inn keep retreated, visibly shaken. I wasn't. I had already witnessed
Aahz's capacity for alcohol, astounding in an era noted for heavy
drinkers. What did vex me a bit was that the man had departed without
taking my order.
            I
did eventually get my flagon of wine, only to find my stomach was too
nervous to readily accept it. As a result, I wound up sipping it
slowly. Not so Aahz. He continued to belt them down at an alarming
rate. For quite some time he drank. In fact, we sat for nearly an
hour, and there was still no sign of the couple who had entered the
shop.
            Finally,
even Aahz began to grow impatient.
            "I
wonder what's taking them so long," he grumbled.
            "Maybe
they're having trouble making up their mind," I suggested.
            "C'mon,
kid. The shop's not that big. He can't have too large a selection."
            He
downed the last of his wine and stood up.
            "We've
waited long enough," he declared. "Let's get this show on
the road."
            "But
what about the couple?" I reminded him.
            

            "We'll
just have to inspire them to conclude their business with a bit more
speed."
            That
had a vaguely ominous ring to it, and Aahz's toothy grin was
additional evidence that something unpleasant was about to happen.
            I
was about to try to dissuade him, but he started across the street
with a purposeful stride that left me standing alone.
            I
hurried to catch up with him, leaving the unicorn behind in my haste.
Even so, I was unable to overtake him before he had entered the shop.
            I
plunged after him, fearing the worst. I needn't have worried. Except
for the proprietor, the shop was empty. There was no sign of the
couple anywhere.
        

        

            

                Chapter Twelve
            

            
                First impressions are of major importance in business matters.
                J. Pierpont Finch
            
            "MAY
I help you, gentlemen?"
            The
proprietor's rich robes did not successfully hide his thinness. I am
not particularly muscular… as Skeeve, that is… but I
had the impression that if I struck this man, he wouldn't bruise,
he'd shatter. I mean, I've seen skinny men before, but he seemed to
be a skeleton with a too-small skin stretched over the bones.
            "We'd
like to talk with Abdul." Aahz said loftily.
            "I
am he, and he is I," recited the proprietor. "You see
before you Abdul, a mere shadow of a man, pushed to the brink of
starvation by his clever customers."
            "You
seem to be doing all right for yourself," I murmured, looking
about me.
            The
shop was well stocked, and even my untraveled eye could readily
detect the undeniable signs of wealth about. The rugs were delicately
woven in soft fabrics unfamiliar to me, and gold and silver shone
from the depths of their designs. Obviously these rugs were intended
for the wealthy, and it seemed doubtful their current owner would be
suffering from a lack of comfort.
            "Ann.
Therein lies the tale of my foolishness," cried the proprietor
wringing his hands. "In my blind confidence, I sank my entire
holdings into my inventory. As a result, I starve in the midst of
plenty. My customers know this and rob me in my vulnerable times. I
lose money on every sale, but a man must eat."
            "Actually,"
Aahz interrupted, "we're looking for something in a deep shag
wall-to-wall carpet."
            "What's
that?… I mean, do not confuse poor Abdul so, my humble
business…."
            "Come
off it, Abdul… or should I say Frumple." Aahz grinned his
widest grin. "We know who you are and what you are. We're here
to do a little business."
            At
his words, the proprietor moved with a swiftness I would not have
suspected him capable of. He was at the door in a bound, throwing a
bolt and lowering a curtain which seemed to be of a substance even
more strange than that of his rugs.
            "Where'd
you learn your manners!" he snarled back over his shoulder in a
voice quite unlike the one used by the whiney proprietor. "I've
got to live in this town, you know."
            "Sorry,"
Aahz said, but he didn't sound at all apologetic.
            "Well,
watch it next time you come barging in and start throwing my name
around. People here are not particularly tolerant of strange beings
or happenings."
            He
seemed to be merely grumbling to himself, so I seized the opportunity
to whisper to Aahz.
            "Psst.
Aahz. What's a wall-to-wall…."
            "Later,
kid."
            "You!"
The proprietor seemed to see me for the first time. "You're the
statue! I didn't recognize you moving."
            "Well…!…."
            "I
should have known," he raved on. "Deal with Imps and you
invite trouble. Next thing you know every…."
            He
broke off suddenly and eyed us suspiciously. His hand disappeared
into the folds and emerged with a clear crystal. He held it up and
looked through it like an eye glass, scrutinizing us each in turn.
            "I
should have known," he spat. "Would you be so kind as to
remove your disguises? I like to know who I'm doing business with."
            I
glanced at Aahz who nodded in agreement.
            Closing
my eyes, I began to effect the change to our normal appearance. I had
enough time to wonder if Frumple would wonder about my
transformation, if he realized I was actually a different person than
the statue he had seen earlier. I needn't have worried.
            "A
Pervert!" Frumple managed to make the word sound slimy.
            "That's
Pervect if you want to do business with us," Aahz corrected.
            "It's
Pervert until I see the color of your money," Frumple sneered
back.
            

            I
was suddenly aware he was studying me carefully.
            "Say,
you wouldn't by any chance be an Imp named Throckwoddle, would you?"
            "Me?
No! I… I'm…."
            But
he was already squinting at me through the crystal again.
            "Hmph,"
he grunted, tucking his viewer back in his robe. "I guess you're
okay. I'd love to get my hands on that Throckwoddle, though. He's
been awfully free spreading my name around lately."
            "Say,
Frumple," Aahz interjected. "You aren't the only one who
likes to see who he's doing business with, you know."
            "Hm?
Oh! Very well, if you insist."
            I
expected him to close his eyes and go to work, but instead he dipped
a hand into his robe again. This time he produced what looked like a
small hand mirror with some sort of a dial on the back. Peering into
the mirror, he began to gently turn the dial with his fingers.
            The
result was immediate and startling. Not merely his face, but his
whole body began to change, filling out, and taking on a definite
reddish hue. As I watched, his brows thickened and grew closer
together, his beard line crept up his face as if it were alive, and
his eyes narrowed cruelly. Almost as an afterthought, I noted that
his feet were now shiny cloven hooves and the tip of a pointed tail
appeared at the bottom hem of his robe.
            In
an impressively short period of time, he had transformed into a…
well, a devil!
            Despite
all my preparations, I felt the prickle of superstitious fear as he
put away the mirror and turned to us again.
            "Are
you happy now?" he grumbled at Aahz.
            "It's
a start," Aahz conceded.
            "Enough
banter," Frumple was suddenly animated again. "What brings
a Pervert to Klah? Slumming? And where does the kid fit in?"
            "He's
my apprentice," Aahz informed him.
            "Really?"
Frumple swept me with a sympathetic gaze. "Are things really
that tough, kid? Maybe we could work something out."
            "He's
quite happy with the situation," interrupted Aahz. "Now
let's get to our problem."
            "You
want me to cure the kid's insanity?"
            "Huh?
No. C'mon, Frumple. We came here on business. Let's declare a truce
for a while, okay?"
            "If
you insist. It'll seem strange, though; Perverts and Deveels have
never really gotten along."
            "That's
Pervects!"
            "See
what I mean?"
            "Aahz!"
I interrupted. "Could you just tell him?"
            "Hmm?
Oh. Right, kid. Look, Frumple. We've got a problem we were hoping you
could help us with. You see, I've lost my powers."
            "What!?"
exploded Frumple. "You came here without the magical ability to
protect yourself against being followed? That tears it. I spend seven
years building a comfortable front here, and some idiot comes along
and…."
            "Look,
Frumple. We told you the kid here's my apprentice. He knows more than
enough to cover us."
            "A
half-trained apprentice! He's trusting my life and security to a
half-trained apprentice!"
            "You
seem to be overlooking the fact we're already here. If anything was
going to happen it would have happened already."
            "Every
minute you two are here you're threatening my existence."
            "…
which is all the more reason for you to deal with our problem
immediately and stop this pointless breast-beating!"
            The
two of them glared at each other for a few moments, while I tried to
be very quiet and unnoticeable. Frumple did not seem to be the right
choice for someone to pin our hopes on.
            "Oh,
all right!" Frumple grumbled at last. "Since I probably
won't be rid of you any other way."
            He
strode to the wall and produced what looked like a length of rope
from behind one of the rugs.
            "That's
more like it," Aahz said triumphantly.
            "Sid
down and shut up," ordered our host.
            Aahz
did as he was bid, and Frumple proceeded to circle him. As he moved,
the Deveel held the rope first this way, then that, sometimes looped
in a circle, other times hanging limp. All the while he stared
intently at the ceiling as if reading a message written there in fine
print.
            I
didn't have the faintest idea what he was doing, but it was strangely
enjoyable to watch someone order Aahz about and get away with it.
            "Hmm…."
the Deveel said at last. "Yes, I think we can say that your
powers are definitely gone."
            "Terrific!"
Aahz growled. "Look, Frumple. We didn't come all this way to be
told something we already knew. You Deveels are supposed to be able
to do anything. Well, do something!"
            "It's
not that easy. Pervert!" Frumple snapped back. "I need
information. How did you lose your powers, anyway?"
            "I
don't know for sure," Aahz admitted. "I was summoned to
Klah by a magician and when I arrived they were gone."
            "A
magician? Which one?"
            "Garkin."
            "Garkin?
He's a mean one to cross. Why don't you just get him to restore your
powers instead of getting me involved?"
            "Because
he's dead. Is that reason enough for you?"
            "Hmm…
that makes it difficult."
            "Are
you saying you can't do anything?" Aahz sneered. "I should
have known. I always thought the reputation of the Deveels was
overrated."
            "Look,
Pervert! Do you want my help or not? I didn't say I couldn't do
anything, just that it would be difficult."
            "That's
more like it," Aahz chortled. "Let's get started."
            "Not
so fast," interrupted Frumple. "I didn't say I would help
you, just that I could."
            "I
see," sneered Aahz. "Here it comes, kid. The price tag. I
told you they were shake-down artists."
            "Actually,"
the Deveel said dryly, "I was thinking of the time factor. It
would take a while for me to make my preparations, and I believe I've
made my feelings quite clear about you staying here longer than is
absolutely necessary."
            "In
that case," smiled Aahz, "I suggest you get started. I
believe I've made my feelings quite clear that we intend to stay here
until the cure is effected."
            "In
that case," the Deveel smiled back at him, "I believe you
raised the matter of cost. How much do you have with you?"
            "Well,
we have…." I began.
            "That
strikes me as being unimportant," Aahz glared warningly at me.
"Suppose you tell us how much you feel is a fair price for your
services."
            Frumple
graced him with one withering glare before sinking thoughtfully into
his calculations.
            "Hmm…
material cost is up… and of course, there's my time…
and you did call without an appointment… let's say it would
cost you, just as a rough estimate, mind you, oh, in the neighborhood
of… Say!"
            He
suddenly brightened and smiled at us.
            "Maybe
you'd be willing to work this as a trade. I cure you, and you do me a
little favor."
            "What
kind of a favor?" Aahz asked suspiciously.
            For
once I was in complete agreement with him. Something in Frumple's
voice did not inspire confidence.
            "A
small thing, really," the Deveel purred. "Sort of a decoy
mission."
            "We'd
rather pay cash," I asserted firmly.
            "Shut
up, kid," Aahz advised. "What kind of a decoy mission,
Frumple?"
            "You
may have noticed the young couple who entered my shop ahead of you.
You did! Good. Then you have doubtless noticed they are not on the
premises currently."
            "How
did they leave?" I asked curiously.
            "I'll
get to that in a moment," Frumple smiled. "Anyway, theirs
is an interesting if common story. I'll spare you the details, but in
short, they're young lovers kept apart by their families. In their
desperation, they turned to me for assistance. I obliged them by
sending them to another dimension where they can be happy free of
their respective family's intervention."
            "For
a fee, of course," Aahz commented dryly.
            "Of
course," Frumple smiled.
            "C'mon,
Aahz," I chided. "It sounds like a decent thing to do, even
if he was paid for it."
            "Quite
so!" beamed the Deveel. "You're quite perceptive for one so
young. Anyway, my generosity has left me in a rather precarious
position. As you have no doubt noticed, I am quite concerned with my
image in this town. There is a chance that image may be threatened if
the couple's relatives succeed in tracking them to my shop and no
farther."
            "That
must have been some fee," Aahz mumbled.
            "Now
my proposition is this: in exchange for my assistance, I would ask
that you two disguise yourselves as that couple and lay a false trail
away from my shop."
            "How
much of a false trail?" I asked.
            "Oh.
it needn't be anything elaborate. Just be seen leaving town by enough
townspeople to ensure that attention will be drawn away from my shop.
Once out of sight of town, you can change to any disguise you like
and return here. By that time, my preparations for your cure should
be complete. Well, what do you say? Is it a deal?"
        

        

            

                Chapter Thirteen
            

            
                The secret to winning the support of large groups of people is positive thinking.
                N. Bonaparte
            
            "PEOPLE
are staring at us, Aahz."
            "Relax,
kid. They're supposed to be staring at us."
            To
illustrate his point, he nodded and waved to a knot of glowering
locals. They didn't wave back.
            "I
don't see why I have to be the girl," I grumbled.
            "We
went through that before, kid. You walk more like a girl than I do."
            "That's
what you and Frumple decided. I don't think I walk like a girl at
all!"
            "Well.
let's say I walk less like a girl than you do."
            It
was hard to argue with logic like that, so I changed subjects.
            "Couldn't
we at least travel by less populated streets?" I asked.
            "Why?"
countered Aahz.
            "Well,
I'm not too wild about having a lot of people seeing me when I'm
masquerading as a girl."
            "C'mon,
kid. The whole idea is that no one would recognize you. Besides, you
don't know anybody in this town. Why should you care what they think
of you?"
            "I
just don't like it, that's all," I grumbled.
            "Not
good enough," Aahz asserted firmly. "Being seen is part of
our deal with Frumple. If you had any objections you should have said
so before we closed the negotiations."
            "I
never got a chance," I pointed out. "But since the
subject's come up, I do have a few questions."
            "Such
as?"
            "Such
as what are we doing?"
            "Weren't
you paying attention, kid? We're laying a false trail for…."
            "I
know that," I interrupted. "What I mean is, why arc we
doing what we're doing? Why are we doing Frumple a favor instead of
just paying his price?"
            "You
wouldn't ask that if you'd ever dealt with a Deveel before,"
Aahz snorted. "Their prices are sky-high, especially in a case
like ours when they know the customer is desperate. Just be thankful
we got such a good deal."
            "That's
what I mean, Aahz. Are we sure we've gotten a good deal?"
            "What
do you mean?"
            "Well,
from what I've been told, if you think you've gotten a good deal from
a Deveel, it usually means you've overlooked something."
            "Of
course you speak from a wide range of experience," Aahz sneered
sarcastically. "Who told you so much about dealing with
Deveels?"
            "You
did," I said pointedly.
            "Hmmm.
You're right, kid. Maybe I have been a little hasty."
            Normally
I would have been ecstatic over having Aahz admit I was right.
Somehow, however, in the current situation, it only made me feel that
much more uncomfortable.
            "So
what are we going to do?" I asked.
            "Well,
normally I deal honestly unless I think I'm being double-crossed.
This time, however, you've raised sufficient doubt in my mind that I
think we should bend the rules a little."
            "Situational
ethics again?"
            "Right!"
            "So
what do we do?"
            "Start
looking for a relatively private place where we can dump these
disguises without being noticed."
            I
began scanning the streets and alleys ahead of us. My uneasiness was
growing into panic, and it lent intensity to my search.
            "I
wish we had our weapons along," I muttered.
            "Listen
to him," Aahz jeered. "It wasn't that long ago you were
telling me all about how magicians don't need weapons. C'mon, kid.
What would you do with a weapon if you had one?"
            "If
you want to get specific," I said dryly, "I was wishing you
had a weapon."
            "Oh!
Good point. Say… ah… kid? Are you still looking for a
private place?"
            "Yeah,
I've got a couple possibles spotted."
            "Well
forget it. Start looking for something wide open with a lot of
exits."
            "Why
the change in strategy," I asked.
            "Take
a look over your shoulder… casual like."
            I
did as I was bid, though it was not as casual as it might have been.
It turned out my acting ability was the least of our worries.
            There
was a crowd of people following us. They glared at us darkly and
muttered to themselves. I wanted very badly to believe we were not
the focus of their attention, but it was obvious that was not the
case. They were clearly following us, and gathering members as they
went.
            "We're
being followed, Aahz!" I whispered.
            "Hey,
kid. I pointed them out to you, remember?"
            "But
why are they following us? What do they want?"
            

            "Well,
I don't know for sure, of course, but I'd guess it has something to
do with our disguises."
            I
snuck another glance at the crowd. The interest in us did not seem to
be lessening at all. If anything, the crowd was even bigger and
looked even angrier. Terrific.
            "Say,
Aahz?" I whispered.
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "If
they're after us because of our disguises, why don't we just change
back?"
            "Bad
plan, kid. I'd rather run the risk of them having some kind of grudge
against the people we're impersonating than facing up to the
consequences if they found out we were magicians."
            "So
what do we do?"
            "We
keep walking and hope we run into a patrol of soldiers that can offer
us some protection."
            A
fist-sized rock thudded into the street ahead of us, presumably
thrown by one of the people following us.
            "…
or…." Aahz revised hastily, "we can stop right now
and find out what this is all about."
            "We
could run," I suggested hopefully, but Aahz was already acting
on his earlier suggestion.
            He
stopped abruptly and spun on his heel to face the crowd.
            "What
is the meaning of this?" he roared at the advancing multitude.
            The
crowd lurched to a halt before the direct address, those in the rear
colliding with those in front who had already stopped. They seemed a
bit taken aback by Aahz's action and milled about without direction.
            I
was pleasantly surprised at the success of my companion's maneuver,
but Aahz was never one to leave well enough alone.
            "Well?"
he demanded, advancing on them. "I'm waiting for an
explanation."
            For
a moment the crowd gave ground before his approach. Then an angry
voice rang out from somewhere in the back.
            "We
want to know about our money!"
            That
opened the door.
            "Yeah!
What about our money?!"
            The
cry was taken up by several other voices, and the crowd began to
growl and move forward again.
            Aahz
stood his ground and held up a hand commanding silence.
            "What
about your money?" he demanded haughtily.
            "Oh,
no, you don't," came a particularly menacing voice. "You
aren't going to talk your way out of it this time!"
            A
massive bald man brandishing a butcher's cleaver shouldered his way
through the crowd to confront Aahz.
            "My
good man," Aahz sniffed. "If you're implying…."
            "I'm
implying nothing!" The man growled. "I'm saying it flat
out. You and that trollop of yours are crooks!"
            "Now,
aren't you being just a bit hasty in…."
            "Hasty!"
the man bellowed. "Hasty! Mister, we've already been too patient
with you. We should have run you out of town when you first showed up
with your phoney anti-demon charms. That's right, I said phoney! Some
of us knew it from the start. Anyone with a little education knows
there's no such things as demons."
            For
a moment I was tempted to let Aahz's disguise drop. Then I looked at
the crowd again and decided against it. It wasn't a group to joke
with.
            "Now,
some folks bought the charms because they were gullible, some as a
gag, some of us because… well, because everyone else was
buying them. But we all bought them, just like we bought your story
that they had to be individually made and you needed the money in
advance."
            "That
was all explained at the time," Aahz protested.
            "Sure
it was. You're great at explanations. You explained it just like you
explained away those two times we caught you trying to leave town."
            "Well…
we… uh," Aahz began.
            "Actually,"
I interrupted, "we were only…."
            "Well,
we've had enough of your explanations. That's what we told you three
days ago when we gave you two days to either come up with the charms
or give us our money back."
            "But
these things take time…."
            "You've
used up that excuse. Your time was up yesterday. Now do we get our
money, or…."
            "Certainly,
certainly," Aahz raised his hands soothingly.
            "Just
give me a moment to speak with my colleague."
            He
smiled at the crowd as he took me by the arm and drew me away.
            "What
are we going to do, Aahz?"
            "Now
we run," he said calmly.
            "Huh?"
I asked intelligently.
            I
was talking to thin air. Aahz was already legging it speedily down
the street.
            I
may be slow at times, but I'm not that slow. In a flash I was hot on
his heels.
            Unfortunately,
the crowd figured out what Aahz was up to about the same time I did.
With a howl they were after us.
            Surprisingly,
I overtook Aahz. Either he was holding back so I could catch up, or I
was more scared than I thought, which is impossible.
            "Now
what?" I panted.
            "Shut
up and keep running, kid," Aahz barked, ducking around a knot of
people.
            "They're
gaining on us," I pointed out.
            Actually,
the group we had just passed had joined the pursuit, but it had the
same effect as if the crowd was gaining.
            "Will
you knock it off and help me look?" Aahz growled.
            "Sure.
What are we looking for?"
            "A
couple dressed roughly like us," he replied.
            "What
do we do if we see them?"
            "Simple,"
Aahz replied. "We plow into them full tilt, you swap our
features for theirs, and we let the mob tear them apart."
            "That
doesn't sound right somehow," I said doubtfully.
            "Kid,
remember what I told you about situational ethics?"
            "Yeah."
            "Well,
this is one of those situations."
            I
was convinced, though not so much by Aahz's logic as by the rock that
narrowly missed my head. I don't know how the crowd managed to keep
its speed and still pick up things to throw, but it did.
            I
began watching for a couple dressed like us. It's harder than it
sounds when you're at a dead run with a mob at your heels.
            Unfortunately,
there was no one in sight who came close to fitting the bill.
Whomever it was we were impersonating seemed to be fairly unique in
their dress.
            "I
wish I had a weapon with me," Aahz complained.
            "We've
already gone through that," I called back. "And besides,
what would you do if you had one? The only thing we've got that might
stop them is the fire ring."
            "Hey!
I'd forgotten about that," Aahz gasped. "I've still got it
on."
            "So
what?" I asked. "We can't use it."
            "Oh,
yeah? Why not?"
            "Because
then they'd know we're magicians."
            "That
won't make any difference if they're dead."
            Situational
ethics or not, my stomach turned at the thought of killing that many
people.
            "Wait,
Aahz! "I shouted.
            "Watch
this, kid." He grinned and pointed his hand at them.
            Nothing
happened.
        

        

            

                Chapter Fourteen
            

            
                A little help at the right time is better than a lot of help at the wrong time.
                Tevye
            
            "C'MON,
Aahz!" I shouted desperately, overturning a fruit stand in the
path of the crowd.
            Now
that it seemed my fellow-humans were safe from Aahz, my concern
returned to making sure he was safe from them.
            "I
don't believe it!" Aahz shouted, as he darted past.
            "What?"
I called, sprinting after him.
            "In
one day I believed both a Deveel and an Imp. Tell you what, kid. If
we get out of this, I give you my permission to kick me hard. Right
in the rump, twice."
            "It's
a deal! "I panted.
            This
running was starting to tax my stamina. Unfortunately, the crowd
didn't seem tired at all. That was enough to keep me running.
            "Look,
kid!" Aahz was pointing excitedly. "We're saved."
            I
followed his finger. A uniformed patrol was marching… well,
sauntering down the street ahead of us. "It's about time,"
I grumbled, but I was relieved nonetheless.
            The
crowd saw the soldiers, too. Their cries increased in volume as they
redoubled their efforts to reach us.
            "C'mon,
kid! Step on it!" Aahz called. "We're not safe yet."
            "Step
on what?" I asked, passing him.
            Our
approach to the patrol was noisy enough that by the time we got
there, the soldiers had all stopped moving and were watching the
chase. One of them, a bit less unkempt than the others, had
shouldered his way to the front of the group and stood sneering at us
with folded arms. From his manners, I guessed he was an officer.
There was no other explanation for the others allowing him to act the
way he was.
            I
skidded to a stop in front of him.
            "We're
being chased!" I panted.
            "Really?
"he smiled.
            "Let
me handle this, kid," Aahz mumbled, brushing me aside. "Are
you the officer in charge, sir?"
            "
I am," the man replied.
            "Well,
it seems that these… citizens," he pointed disdainfully
at our pursuers, "intend us bodily harm. A blatant disregard for
your authority… sir!"
            The
mob was some ten feet distant and stood glaring alternately at us and
the soldiers. I was gratified to observe that at least some of them
were breathing hard.
            "I
suppose you're right," the officer yawned. "We should take
a hand in this."
            "Watch
this, kid," Aahz whispered, nudging me in the ribs as the
officer stepped forward to address the crowd.
            "All
right. You all know it is against the law for citizens to inflict
injuries on each other," he began.
            The
crowd began to grumble darkly, but the officer waved them into
silence as he continued.
            "I
know, I know. We don't like it either. If it were up to us we'd let
you settle your own differences and spend our time drinking. But it's
not up to us. We have to follow the laws the same way you do, and the
laws say only the military can judge and punish the citizenry."
            "See?"
I whispered. "There are some advantages to civilization."
            "Shut
up, kid," Aahz hissed back.
            "So
even though I know you'd love to beat these two to a bloody pulp, we
can't let you do it. They must be hanged in accordance with the law!"
            "What?"
            I'm
not sure if I said it, or Aahz, or if we cried out in unison.
Whichever it was, it was nearly drowned out in the enthusiastic roar
of the crowd.
            A
soldier seized my wrists and twisted them painfully behind my back.
Looking about, I saw the same thing had happened to Aahz. Needless to
say, this was not the support we had been hoping for.
            "What
did you expect?" the officer sneered at us. "If you wanted
help from the military, you shouldn't have included us on your list
of customers. If we had had our way, we would have strung you up a
week ago. The only reason we held back was these yokels had given you
extra time and we were afraid of a riot if we tried anything."
            Our
wrists were secured by thongs now. We were slowly being herded toward
a lone tree in front of one of the open-air restaurants.
            "Has
anyone got some rope?" the officer called to the crowd.
            Just
our luck, somebody did. It was passed rapidly to the officer, who
began ceremoniously tying nooses.
            "Psst!
kid!" Aahz whispered.
            "What
now?" I mumbled bitterly.
            My
faith in Aahz's advice was at an all-time low.
            "When
they go to hang you, fly!"
            "What?"
            Despite
myself, I was seized with new hope.
            "C'mon,
kid. Wake up! Fly. Like I taught you on the trail."
            "They'd
just shoot me down."
            "Not
fly away, dummy. Just fly. Hover at the end of the rope and twitch.
They'll think you're hanging."
            I
thought about it… hard. It might work, but… I noticed
they were tossing the nooses over a lower limb of the tree.
            "Aahz!
I can't do it. I can't levitate us both. I'm not that good yet."
            "Not
both of us, kid. Just you. Don't worry about me."
            "But…
Aahz…."
            "Keep
my disguise up, though. If they figure out I'm a demon they'll burn
the bodies… both of them."
            "But
Aahz…."
            We
were out of time. Rough hands shoved us forward and started fitting
the nooses over our heads.
            I
realized with a start I had no time to think about Aahz. I'd need all
my concentration to save myself, if there was even time for that!
            I
closed my eyes and sought desperately for a force line in the air.
There was one there… faint, but there. I began to focus on it.
            The
noose tightened around my neck and I felt my feet leave the ground. I
felt panic rising in me and forced it down.
            Actually
it was better this way. They should feel weight on the rope as they
raised me. I concentrated on the force line again… focus…
draw the energies… redirect them.
            I
felt a slight loosening of the noose. Remembering Aahz's lectures on
control, I held the energies right there and tried an experimental
breath. I could get air! Not much, it was true, but enough to
survive.
            What
else did I have to do? Oh yes, I had to twitch. I thought back to how
a squirrel-badger acted when caught in a snare.
            I
kicked my legs slightly and tried an experimental tremor. It had the
overall effect of tightening the noose. I decided to try another
tactic. I let my head loll to one side and extended my tongue out of
the corner of my mouth.
            It
worked. There was a sudden increase in the volume of the cat-calls
from the crowd to reward my efforts.
            I
held that pose.
            My
tongue was rapidly drying out, but I forced my mind away from it. To
avoid involuntarily swallowing, I tried to think of other things.
            Poor
Aahz. For all his gruff criticism and claims of not caring for anyone
else but himself, his last act had been to think of my welfare. I
promised myself that when I got down from here….
            What
would happen when I got down from here? What do they do with bodies
in this town? Do they bury them? It occurred to me it might be better
to hang than be buried alive.
            "The
law says they're supposed to hang there until they rot!"
            The
officer's voice seemed to answer my thoughts and brought my mind back
to the present.
            "Well,
they aren't hanging in front of the law's restaurant!" came an
angry voice in response.
            "Tell
you what. We'll come back at sundown and cut them down."
            "Sundown?
Do you realize how much money I could lose before sundown? Nobody
wants to eat at a place where a corpse dangles its toes in his soup.
I've already lost most of the lunch rush!"
            "Hmm…
It occurs to me that if the day's business means that much to you,
you should be willing to share a little of the profit."
            "So
that's the way it is, is it? Oh, very well. Here… for your
troubles."
            There
was the sound of coins being counted out.
            "That
isn't very much. I have to share with my men, you know."
            "You
drive a hard bargain! I didn't know bandits had officers."
            More
coins were counted, accompanied by the officer's chuckle. It occurred
to me that instead of studying magik, I should be devoting my time to
bribes and graft. It seemed to work better.
            "Men!"
the officer called. "Cut this carrion down and haul it out of
town. Leave it at the city limits as a warning to anyone else who
would seek to .cheat the citizens of Twixt."
            "You're
too considerate." The restaurant owner's voice was edged with
sarcasm.
            "Think
nothing of it, citizen," the officer sneered.
            I
barely remembered to stop flying before they cut the rope. I bit my
tongue as I started into the ground, and risked sneaking it back into
my mouth. No one noticed.
            Unseen
hands grabbed me under the armpits and by the ankles, and the journey
began to the city limits.
            Now
that I knew I wasn't going to be buried, my thoughts returned to my
future.
            First,
I would have to do something to Frumple. What, I wasn't sure, but
something. I owed Aahz that much. Maybe I could restore Quigley and
enlist his aid. He was supposed to be a demon hunter. He was probably
better equipped to handle a Deveel than I was. Then again,
remembering Quigley, that might not be a valid assumption.
            Then
there was Isstvan. What was I going to do about him? I wasn't sure I
could beat him with Aahz's help. Without it, I wouldn't stand a
chance.
            "This
should be far enough. Shall we hang them again?"
            I
froze at the suggestion. Fortunately the voice at my feet had
different ideas.
            "Why
bother? I haven't seen an officer yet who'd move a hundred paces from
a bar. Let's just dump 'em here."
            There
was a general chorus of assent, and the next minute I was flying
through the air again. I tried to relax for the impact, but the
ground knocked the wind out of me again.
            If
I was going to continue my efforts to master flying, I'd have to
devote more time to the art of forced landings.
            I
lay there motionless. I couldn't hear the soldiers any more, but I
didn't want to run the risk of sitting up and betraying the fact I
wasn't dead.
            "Are
you going to lay there all day or are you going to help me get
untied?"
            My
eyes flew open involuntarily. Aahz was sitting there
grinning down at me.
            There
was only one sensible thing to do, and I did it. I fainted.
        

        

            

                Chapter Fifteen
            

            
                Anyone who uses the phrase 'easy as taking candy from a baby' has never tried taking candy from a baby.
                R. Hood
            
            "CAN
we move now?" I asked.
            "Not
yet, kid. Wait until the lights have been out for a full day."
            "You
mean a full hour."
            "Whatever.
Now shut up and keep watching."
            We
were waiting in the dead-end alley across the street from Frumple's
shop. Even though we were supposedly secure in our new disguises, I
was uneasy being back in the same town where I had been hung. It's a
hard feeling to describe to someone who hasn't experienced it. Then
too, it was strange being with Aahz after I had gotten used to the
idea of him being dead.
            Apparently
the neck muscles of a Pervect are considerably stronger than those of
a human. Aahz had simply tensed those muscles and they provided
sufficient support to keep the noose from cutting off his air supply.
            As
a point of information, Aahz had further informed me that his scales
provided better armor than most chain-mail or plate armor available
in this dimension. I had heard once that demons could only be
destroyed by specially constructed weapons or by burning. It seemed
the old legends may have actually had some root in fact.
            "Okay,
kid," Aahz whispered. "I guess we've waited long enough."
            He
eased himself out of the alley and led me in a long circle around the
shop, stopping again only when we had returned to our original spot
by the alley. "Well, what do you think, kid?"
            "Don't
know. What were we looking for?"
            "Tell
me again about how you planned to be a thief," Aahz sighed.
"Look, kid. We're looking over a target. Right?"
            "Right,"
I replied, glad to be able to agree with something. "Okay, how
many ways in and out of that shop did you see?"
            "Just
one. The one across the street there."
            "Right.
Now how do you figure we're going to get into the shop?"
            "I
don't know," I said honestly.
            "C'nion,
kid. If there's only one way in…."
            "You
mean we're just going to walk in the front door?"
            "Why
not? We can see from here the door's open."
            "Well…
if you say so, Aahz. I just thought it would be harder than that."
            "Whoa!
Nobody said it was going to be easy. Just because the door's open
doesn't mean the door's open."
            "I
didn't quite get that, Aahz."
            "Think,
kid. We're after a Deveel, right? He's got access to all kinds of
magic and gimmicks. Now what say you close your eyes and take another
look at that door."
            I
did as I was told. Immediately the image of a glowing cage sprang
into my mind, a cage that completely enclosed the shop.
            "He's
got some kind of ward up, Aahz," I informed my partner.
            It
occurred to me that a few short weeks ago I would have held such a
structure in awe. Now, I accepted it as relatively normal, just
another obstacle to be overcome.
            "Describe
it to me," Aahz hissed.
            "Well…
it's bright… whitish purple… there's a series of bars
and crossbars forming squares about a hand-span across…."
            "Is
it just over the door, or all over the shop?"
            "All
over the shop. The top's covered, and the bars run right into the
ground."
            "Hmm,
well, we'll just have to go through it. Listen up, kid. Time for a
quick lesson."
            I
opened my eyes and looked at the shop again. The building looked as
innocent as it had when we first circled it. It bothered me that I
couldn't sense the cage's presence the way I could our own wards.
            "What
is it, Aahz?" I asked uneasily.
            "Hmm?
Oh. it's a ward, kind of like the ones we use, but a lot nastier."
            "Nastier,
how?"
            "Well,
the kind of wards I taught you to build are an early warning system
and not much else. From the sounds of it, the stuff Frumple is using
will do considerably more. Not only will it kill you, it'll knock you
into pieces smaller than dust. It's called disintegration."
            "And
we're going to go through it?" I asked, incredulously.
            "After
you've had a quick lesson. Now, remember your feather drills? How
you'd wrap your mind around the feather for control?"
            "Yeah.
"I said, puzzled.
            "Well,
I want you to do the same thing, but without the feather. Pretend
you're holding something that isn't there. Form the energies into a
tube."
            "Then
what?"
            "Then
you insert the tube into one of the squares in the cage and expand
it."
            "That's
all?"
            "That's
it. C'mon now. Give it a try."
            I
closed my eyes and reached out with my mind.
            Choosing
a square in the center of the open doorway, I inserted my mental tube
and began to expand it. As it touched the bars forming the square, I
experienced a tingle and a physical pressure as if I had encountered
a tangible object.
            "Easy,
kid," Aahz said softly. "We just want to bend the bars a
bit, not break them."
            I
expanded the tube. The bars gave way slowly, until they met with the
next set. Then I experienced another tingle and additional pressure.
            "Remember,
kid. Once we're inside, take your time. Wait for your eyes to adjust
to the dark. We don't want to tip Frumple off by stumbling around and
knocking things over."
            I
was having to strain now. The tube had reached another set of bars
now, making it a total of twelve bars I was forcing outward.
            "Have
you got it yet?" Aahz's whisper Sounded anxious.
            "Just
a second…Yes!"
            The
tube was now big enough for us to crawl through.
            "Are
you sure?"
            "Yes."
            "Okay.
Lead the way, kid. I'll be right behind you."
            Strangely
enough, I felt none of my usual doubts as I strode boldly across the
street to the shop. Apparently my confidence in my abilities was
growing, for I didn't even hesitate as I began to crawl through the
tube. The only bad moment I had was when I suddenly realized I was
crawling on thin air about a foot off the ground. Apparently I had
set the tube a little too high, but no matter. It held! Next time I
would know better.
            I
eased myself out of the end of the tube and stood in the shop's
interior. I could hear the soft sounds of Aahz's passage behind me as
I waited for my eyes to adjust to the dark.
            "Ease
away from the door, kid," came Aahz's whispered advice in my ear
as he stood behind me. "You're standing in a patch of moonlight.
And you can collapse the tube now."
            Properly
notified, I shifted away from the moonlight. I was pleased to note,
however, that releasing the tube did not make a significant
difference in my mental energies. I was progressing to where I could
do more difficult feats with less energy than when I started. I was
actually starting to feel like a magician.
            I
heard a slight noise behind me and craned my neck to look. Aahz was
quietly drawing the curtains over the door.
            I
smiled grimly to myself. Good! We don't want witnesses.
            My
eyes were nearly adjusted now. I could make out shapes and shadows in
the darkness. There was a dark lump in the corner that breathed
heavily. Frumple!
            I
felt a hand on my shoulder. Aahz pointed out a lamp on a table and
held up four fingers.
            I
nodded and started counting slowly to four. As I reached the final
number, I focused a quick flash of energy at the lamp, and its wick
burst into flame, lighting the shop's interior.
            Aahz
was kneeling beside Frumple, knife in hand. Apparently he had
succeeded in finding at least some of our weapons in the dark.
            Frumple
sat up blinking, then froze in place. Aahz had the point of his knife
hovering a hairsbreadth from the Deveel's throat.
            "Hello,
Frumple," he smiled. "Remember us?"
            "You!"
gasped the Deveel. "You're supposed to be dead!"
            "Dead?"
Aahz purred. "How could any harm befall us with our old pal
Frumple helping us blend with the citizenry?"
            "Gentlemen!"
our victim squealed. "There seems to have been a mistake!"
            "That's
right," I commented. "And you made it."
            "You
don't understand!" Frumple persisted, "I was surprised and
horrified when I heard about your deaths."
            "Yeah,
we weren't too happy about it ourselves."
            "Later,
kid. Look, Frumple. Right now we have both the ability and the motive
to kill you. Right?"
            "But
I…."
            "Right?"
            Aahz
moved the knife until the point was indenting the skin on Frumple's
throat.
            "Right!"
the Deveel whispered.
            "Okay,
then." Aahz withdrew the knife and tucked it back in his waist
band. "New let's talk business."
            "I…
I don't understand," Frumple stammered, rubbing his throat with
one hand as if to assure himself that it was still there.
            "What
it means," Aahz explained, "is that we want your help more
than we want revenge. Don't relax too much, though. The choice wasn't
that easy."
            "I…
I see. Well, what can I do for you?"
            "C'mon,
Frumple. You can honor our original deal. You've got to admit we've
laid one heck of a false trail for your two fugitives. Now it's your
turn. Just restore my powers and we'll be on our way."
            The
Deveel blanched, or at least he turned from red to pink.
            "I
can't do that!" he exclaimed.
            "What?"
            The
knife appeared in Aahz's hand again as if by magik.
            "Now
look, you double-dealing refugee. Either you restore my powers or…."
            "You
don't understand," Frumple pleaded. "I don't mean I won't
restore your powers. I mean I can't. I don't know what's wrong with
you or how to counter it. That's why I set you up with the mob. I was
afraid if I told you before, you wouldn't believe me. I've spent too
much time establishing myself here to risk being exposed by an
unsatisfied customer. I'm sorry, I really am, and I know you'll
probably kill me, but I can't help you!"
        

        

            

                Chapter Sixteen
            

            
                Just because something doesn't do what you planned it to do doesn't mean it's useless.
                T.  Edison
            
            "HMMM,"
Aahz said thoughtfully. "So you're powerless to restore my
powers?"
            "Does
that mean we can kill him after all?" I asked eagerly. I had
been hopeful of having Aahz's powers restored, but in lieu of that, I
was still a bit upset over having been hung.
            "You're
a rather vicious child," Frumple looked at me speculatively.
"What's a Pervect doing traveling with a Klahd, anyway?"
            "Who's
a clod? "I bristled.
            "Easy,
kid," Aahz said soothingly. "Nothing personal. Everyone
who's native to this dimension is a Klahd. Klah… Klahds…
get it?"
            "Well,
I don't like the sound of it," I grumbled.
            "Relax,
kid. What's in a name, anyway?"
            "Then
it doesn't really matter to you if people call you a Pervect or a
Pervert?"
            "Watch
your mouth, kid. Things are going bad enough without you getting
cheeky."
            "Gentlemen,
gentlemen," Frumple interrupted. "If you're going to fight
would you mind going outside? I mean, this is my shop."
            "Can
we kill him now, Aahz?"
            "Ease
up, kid. Just because he can't restore my powers doesn't mean he's
totally useless. I'm sure that he'll be more than happy to help us,
particularly after he failed to pay up on our last deal. Right,
Frumple?"
            "Oh,
definitely. Anything I can do to make up for the inconvenience I've
caused you."
            "Inconvenience?"
I asked incredulously.
            "Steady,
kid. Well, Frumple, you could start by returning the stuff we left
here when we went off on your little mission."
            "Of
course. I'll get it for you."
            The
Deveel started to rise, only to find Aahz's knife threatening him
again.
            "Don't
trouble yourself, Frumple, old boy," Aahz smiled. "Just
point out where they are and we'll fetch them ourselves… and
keep your hands where I can see them."
            "The…
your things are over there… in the big chest against the
wall," Frumple's eyes never left the knife as he spoke.
            "Check
it out, kid."
            I
did and, surprisingly, the items were exactly where the Deveel said
they would be. There was, however, an intriguing collection of other
strange items in the chest also.
            "Hey,
Aahz!" I called. "Take a look at this!"
            "Sure,
kid."
            He
backed across the shop to join me. As he did, he flipped the knife
into what I now recognized as a throwing grip. Apparently Frumple
recognized it too, because he stayed frozen in position.
            "Well,
what have we here?" Aahz chortled.
            "Gentlemen,"
the Deveel called plaintively. "I could probably help you better
if I knew what you needed."
            "True
enough," Aahz responded, reclaiming his weapons.
            "Frumple,
it occurs to me we haven't been completely open with you. That will
have to be corrected if we're going to be allies."
            "Wait
a minute, Aahz," I interrupted. "What makes you think we
can trust him after he's tried so hard to get us killed?"
            "Simple,
kid. He tried to get us killed to protect himself, right?"
            "Well…."
            "So
once we explain it's in his own self-interest to help us, he should
be completely trustworthy."
            "Really?"
I sneered.
            "Well,
as trustworthy as any Deveel can be," Aahz admitted.
            "I
resent the implications of that. Pervert!" Frumple exclaimed.
"If you want any help, you'd better…." Aahz's knife
flashed through the air and thunked into the wall scant inches from
the Deveel's head.
            "Shut
up and listen, Frumple!" he snarled. "And that's Pervect!"
            "What's
in a name, Aahz?" I asked innocently.
            "Shut
up, kid. Okay, Frumple, does the name Isstvan mean anything to you?"
            "No.
Should it?"
            "It
should if you want to stay alive. He's a madman magician who's trying
to take over the dimensions, starting with this one."
            "Why
should that concern me?" Frumple frowned. "We Deveels trade
with anyone who can pay the price. We don't concern ourselves with
analyzing politics or mental stability. If we only dealt with sane
beings, it would cut our business by a third… maybe more."
            "Well,
you'd better concern yourself this time. Maybe you didn't hear me.
Isstvan is starting with this dimension. He's out to get a monopoly
on Klah's energies to use on other dimensions. To do that, he's out
to kill anyone else in this dimension who knows how to tap those
energies. He's not big on sharing."
            "Hmmm.
Interesting theory, but where's the proof I mean, who's he supposed
to have killed?"
            "Garkin,
for one," I said, dryly.
            "That's
right," Aahz snarled. "You're so eager to know why the two
of us are traveling together. Well, Skeeve here was Garkin's
apprentice until Isstvan sent his assassins to wipe out the
competition."
            "Assassins?"
            "That's
right. You saw two of them, those Imps you teleported about a week
back." Aahz flourished the assassin's cloak we had acquired.
            "Where
did you think we got this? In a rummage sale?"
            "Hmmm,"
Frumple commented thoughtfully.
            "And
he's arming them with tech weapons. Take a look at this crossbow
quarrel."
            Aahz
lobbed one of the missiles to the Deveel who caught it deftly and
examined it closely.
            "Hmmm.
I didn't notice that before. It's a good camouflage job, but totally
unethical."
            "Now
do you see why enlisting your aid takes priority over the pleasure of
slitting your lying throat?"
            "I
see what you mean," Frumple replied without rancor. "It's
most convincing. But what can I do?"
            "You
tell us. You Deveels are supposed to have wonders for every occasion.
What have you got that would give us an edge over a madman who knows
his magik?"
            Frumple
thought for several minutes. Then shrugged. "I can't think of a
thing just offhand. I haven't been stocking weapons lately. Not much
call for them in this dimension."
            "Terrific,"
I said. "Can we kill him now, Aahz?"
            "Say,
could you put a muzzle on him?" Frumple said. "What's your
gripe anyway, Skeeve?"
            "I
don't take well to being hung," I snarled. "Really? Well,
you'll get used to it if you keep practicing magik. It's being burned
that's really a pain."
            "Wait
a minute, Frumple," Aahz interrupted. "You're acting
awfully casual about hanging for someone who was so surprised to see
us alive."
            "I
was. I underestimated your apprentice's mastery of the energies. If I
had thought you could escape, I would have thought of something else.
I was trying to get you killed, after all."
            "He
doesn't sound particularly trustworthy," I observed.
            "You
will notice, my young friend, that I stated my intentions in the past
tense. Now that we share a common goal, you'll find me much easier to
deal with."
            "Which
brings us back to our original question," Aahz asserted. "What
can you do for us, Frumple?"
            "I
really don't know," the Deveel admitted. "Unless… I
know! I can send you to the Bazaar!"
            "The
Bazaar?" I asked.
            "The
Bazaar on Deva! If you can't find what you need there, it doesn't
exist. Why didn't I think of that before? That's the answer!"
            He
was on his feet now, moving toward us.
            "I
know you're in a hurry, so I'll get you started…."
            "Not
so fast, Frumple."
            Aahz
had his sword out menacing the Deveel.
            "We
want a guarantee this is a round trip you're sending us on."
            "I…
I don't understand."
            "Simple.
You tried to get rid of us once. It occurs to me you might be tempted
to send us off to some backwater dimension with no way to get back."
            "But
I give you my word that…."
            "We
don't want your word," Aahz grinned. "We want your
presence."
            "What?"
            "Where
we go, you go. You're coming with us, just to be extra sure we get
back."
            "I
can't do that!" Frumple seemed honestly terrified. "I've
been banned from Deva! You don't know what they'd do to me if I went
back."
            "That's
too bad. We want a guaranteed return before we budge, and that's
you!"
            "Wait
a minute! I think I've got the answer!"
            The
Deveel began frantically rummaging through chests. I watched,
fascinated, as an astounding array of strange objects emerged as he
searched.
            "Here
it is!" he cried at last, holding his prize aloft.
            It
appeared to be a metal rod, about eight inches long and two inches in
diameter. It had strange markings on its sides, and a button on the
end.
            "A
D-Hopper!" Aahz exclaimed. "I haven't seen one of those in
years."
            Frumple
tossed it to him.
            "There
you go. Is that guarantee enough?"
            "What
is it, Aahz?" I asked, craning my neck to see. He seized the
ends of the rod and twisted in opposite directions. Apparently it was
constructed of at least two parts, because the symbols began to slide
around the rod in opposite directions.
            "Depending
on where you want to go, you align different symbols. Then you just
push the button and…."
            "Wait
a minute!" Frumple cried. "We haven't settled on a price
for that yet!"
            "Price?"
I asked.
            "Yeah,
price! Those things don't grow on trees, you know."
            "If
you will recall," Aahz murmured, "you still owe us from our
last deal."
            "True
enough," Frumple agreed. "But as you yourself pointed out,
those D-Hoppers are rare. A real collector's item. It's only fair
that our contract be renegotiated at a slightly higher fee."
            "Frumple,
we're in too much of a hurry to argue," Aahz announced. "I'll
say once what we're willing to relinquish over and above our original
deal and you can take it or leave it. Fair enough?"
            "What
did you have in mind?" Frumple asked, rubbing his hands together
eagerly.
            "Your
life."
            "My…
Oh! I see. Yes, that… urn… should be an acceptable
price."
            "I'm
surprised at you, Frumple," I chimed in. "Letting a
collector's item go that cheap."
            "C'mon,
kid." Aahz was adjusting the settings on the D-Hopper. "Let's
get moving."
            "Just
a second, Aahz. I want to get my sword."
            "Leave
it. We can pick it up on the way back."
            "Say,
Aahz, how long does it take to travel between dimensions any…."
            The
walls of Frumple's hut suddenly dissolved in a kaleidescope of color.
            "Not
long, kid. In fact, we're there."
            And
we were.
        

        

            

                Chapter Seventeen
            

            
                The wonders of the ages assembled for your edification, education, and enjoyment-for a price.
                P. T. Barnum
            
            WHILE
I knew my home dimension wasn't particularly colorful, I never really
considered it drab… until I first set eyes on the Bazaar at
Deva.
            Even
though both Aahz and Frumple, and even the Imps, had referred to this
phenomenon, I had never actually sat back and tried to envision it.
It was just as well. Anything I could have fantasized would have been
dwarfed by the real thing.
            The
Bazaar seemed to stretch endlessly in all directions as far as the
eye could see. Tents and lean-tos of all designs and colors were
gathered in irregular clumps that shoved against each other for more
room.
            There
were thousands of Deveels everywhere of every age and description.
Tall Deveels, fat Deveels, lame Deveels, bald Deveels, all moved
about until the populace gave the appearance of being one seething
mass with multiple heads and tails. There were other beings scattered
through the crowd. Some of them looked like nightmares come to life;
others I didn't recognize as being alive until they moved, but they
all made noise.
            The
noise! Twixt had seemed noisy to me after my secluded life with
Garkin, but the clamor that assailed my ears now defied all
description. There were shrieks and dull explosions and strange
burbling noises emanating from the depths of the booths around us,
competing with the constant din of barter. It seemed no one spoke
below a shout. Whether weeping piteously, barking in anger, or
displaying bored indifference, all bartering was to be done at the
top of your lungs.
            

            "Welcome
to Deva, kid," Aahz gestured expansively. "What do you
think?"
            "It's
loud." I observed.
            "What?"
            "I
said, 'it's loud!' " I shouted.
            "Oh,
well. It's a bit livelier than your average Farmer's Market or
Fisherman's Wharf, but there are noisier places to be."
            I
was about to respond when a passerby careened into me. He, or she,
had eyes spaced all around his head and fur-covered tentacles instead
of arms.
            "Wzkip!"
it said, waving a tentacle as it continued on its way.
            "Aahz!"
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "It
just occurred to me. What language do they speak on Deva?"
            "Hmm?
Oh! Don't worry about it, kid. They speak all languages here. No
Deveel that's been hatched would let a sale get away just because
they couldn't speak the right tongue. Just drop a few sentences on
'em in Klahdish and they'll adapt fast enough."
            "Okay,
Aahz. Now that we're here, where do we go first?"
            There
was no answer. I tore my eyes away from the Bazaar and glanced at my
partner. He was standing motionless, sniffing the air.
            "Aahz?"
            "Hey
kid, do you smell that?" he asked eagerly.
            I
sniffed the air.
            "Yeah!"
I gagged. "What died?"
            "C'mon,
kid. Follow me."
            He
plunged off into the crowd, leaving me little choice but to trail
after him. Hands plucked at our sleeves as we passed, and various
Deveels leaned out of their stalls and tents to call to us as we
passed, but Aahz didn't slacken his pace. I couldn't get a clear look
at any of the displays as we passed. Keeping up with Aahz demanded
most of my concentration. One tent, however, did catch my eye.
            "Look.
Aahz! "I cried.
            "What?"
            "It's
raining in that tent!"
            As
if in answer to my words, a boom of thunder and a crackle of
lightning erupted from the display.
            "Yeah.
So?" Aahz dismissed it with a glance.
            "What
are they selling, rain?"
            "Naw.
Weather-control devices. They're scattered through the whole Bazaar
instead of hanging together in one section. Something about the
devices interfering with each other."
            "Are
all the displays that spectacular?"
            "That
isn't spectacular, kid. They used to do tornados until the other
booths complained and they had to limit their demonstrations to the
tame stuff. Now hurry up!"
            "Where
are we going anyway, Aahz? And what is that smell?"
            The
repulsive aroma was growing noticeably stronger.
            "That,"
proclaimed Aahz, coming to a halt in front of a dome-shaped tent, "is
the smell of Pervish cooking!"
            "Food?
We came all this way so you could have a meal?"
            "First
things first, kid. I haven't had a decent meal since Garkin called me
out of the middle of a party and stranded me in your idiot
dimension."
            "But
we're supposed to be looking for something to use against Isstvan."
            "Relax,
kid. I haggle better on a full stomach. Just wait here. I won't be
long."
            "Wait
here? Can't I go in with you?"
            "I
don't think you'd like it, kid. To anyone who wasn't born on Perv,
the food looks even worse than it smells."
            I
found that hard to believe, but pursued the argument gamely.
            "I'm
not all that weak-stomached, you know. When I was living in the
woods, I ate some pretty weird things myself."
            "I'll
tell ya, kid, the main problem with Pervish food is keeping the goo
from crawling out of the bowl while you're eating it."
            "I'll
wait here," I decided.
            "Good.
Like I say, I won't be long. You can watch the dragons until I get
back."
            "Dragons?"
I said, but he had already disappeared through the tent flap.
            I
turned slowly and looked at the display behind me.
            Dragons!
            There
was an enormous stall stocked with dragons not fifteen feet from
where I was standing. Most of the beasts were tethered at the back
wall which kept me from seeing them as we approached, but upon direct
viewing there was no doubt they were dragons.
            Curiosity
made me drift over to join the small crowd in front of the stall. The
stench was overwhelming, but after a whiff of Pervish cooking, it
seemed almost pleasant.
            I
had never seen a dragon before, but the specimens in the stall lived
up to the expectations of my daydreams. They were huge, easily ten or
fifteen feet high at the shoulder and a full thirty feet long. Their
necks were long and serpentine, and their clawed feet dug great
gouges in the ground as they shifted their weight nervously.
            I
was surprised to see how many varieties there were. It had never
occurred to me that there might be more than one type of dragon, but
here was living proof to the contrary. Besides the green dragons I
had always envisioned, there were red, black, gold and blue dragons.
There was even one that was mauve. Some were winged and some weren't.
Some had wide, massive jaws and others
had narrow snouts. Some had eyes that were squinting and slanted,
while others had huge moon-like eyes that never seemed to blink. They
had two things in common, however: they were all big and they all
looked thoroughly nasty.
            My
attention was drawn to the Deveel running the operation. He was the
biggest Deveel I had ever seen, fully eight feet tall with arms like
trees. It was difficult to say which was more fearsome in appearance,
the dragons or their keeper.
            He
brought one of the red dragons to the center of the stall and
released it with a flourish. The beast raised its head and surveyed
the crowd with seething yellow eyes. The crowd fell back a few steps
before that gaze. I seriously considered leaving.
            The
Deveel shouted a few words at the crowd in gibberish I couldn't
understand, then picked up a sword from the rack by the wall.
            Fast
as a cat, the dragon arched his neck and spat a stream of fire at its
keeper. By some miracle, the flame parted as it hit the Deveel and
passed harmlessly on either side of him.
            The
keeper smiled and turned to shout a few more words at his audience.
As he did, the dragon leapt at him with murderous intent. The Deveel
dove to the ground and rolled out from under the attack as the beast
landed with an impact that shook the tent. The dragon whirled, but
the keeper was on his feet again, holding aloft a pendant before the
beast's eyes.
            I
didn't understand his move, but apparently the dragon did, for it
cowered back on its haunches. The Deveel pointed forcefully and it
slunk back to its place at the back of the stall.
            A
small ripple of applause rippled through the crowd. Apparently they
were impressed with the ferocity of the dragon's attack. Me, I was
impressed by the pendant.
            The
keeper acknowledged the applause and launched into another spiel of
gibberish, this time punctuated by gestures and exclamations.
            I
decided it was about time for me to go.
            "Gleep!"
            There
was a tug at my sleeve.
            I
looked around. There, behind me, was a small dragon! Well, he was
about four feet high and ten feet long, but after looking at the
other dragons, he seemed small. He was green with big blue eyes and
what appeared to be a drooping white mustache.
            For
a split second I was panicky, but that rapidly gave way to curiosity.
He didn't look dangerous. He seemed quite content just standing there
chewing on….
            My
sleeve! The beast was eating a piece of my sleeve! I looked down and
confirmed that part of my shirt was indeed missing.
            "Gleep,"
said the dragon again, stretching his neck out for another mouthful.
            "Go
away!" I said, and cuffed him before I realized what I was
doing.
            "Gleep?"
it said, puzzled.
            I
started to edge away. I was unsure of what to do if he cut loose with
a blast of fire and therefore eager to avoid it.
            "Gleep,"
it said, shuffling after me.
            "Gazabkp!"
roared a voice behind me.
            I
spun and found myself looking at a hairy stomach. I followed it up,
way up, and saw the dragon keeper's face looming over me.
            "I'm
sorry," I apologized readily. "I don't speak your
language."
            "Oh.
A Klahd!" The Deveel boomed. "Well, the Statement still
stands. Pay up!"
            "Pay
up for what?"
            "For
the dragon! What do you think, we're giving away samples?"
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, pressing his head against my leg.
            "There
seems to be some mistake," I said hastily.
            "I'll
say there is," the Deveel scowled. "And making it. We don't
take kindly to shop-lifting Deva!"
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon.
            Things
were rapidly getting out of hand. If needed Aahz's help or advice, it
was now. I shot a desperate glance toward the tent he was in, hoping
beyond hope to see him emerge.
            He
wasn't there. In fact, the tent wasn't there! gone, vanished into
thin air, and so had Aahz!
        

        

            

                Chapter Eighteen
            

            
                No matter what the product or service might be, you can find it somewhere else cheaper!
                E.  Scrooge
            
            "WHERE
did that tent go?" I demanded desperately.
            "What
tent?" The keeper blinked, looming behind me.
            "That
tent," I exclaimed, pointing at the now vacant space.
            The
Deveel frowned, craning his neck, which at his height, gave him
considerable visibility.
            "There
isn't any tent there," he announced with finality.
            "I
know! That's the point!"
            "Hey!
Quit trying to change the subject!" The keeper growled, poking
me in the chest with an unbelievably large finger. "Are you
going to pay for the dragon or not?"
            I
looked around for support, but no one was watching. Apparently
disputes such as this were common on Deva.
            "I
told you there's been a mistake! I don't want your dragon."
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, cocking his head at me.
            "Don't
give me that!" the keeper boomed. "If you didn't want him,
why did you feed him?"
            "I
didn't feed him! He ate a piece of my sleeve!"
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, making another unsuccessful pass at my shirt.
            "So
you admit he got food from you?"
            "Well…
in a manner of speaking… Yeah! So what?" I was getting
tired of being shouted at.
            "So
pay up! He's no good to me anymore."
            I
surveyed the dragon. He didn't seem to be any the worse for having
eaten the shirt. "What's wrong with him? He looks all right to
me."
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, and sidled up to me again.
            "Oh!
He's fine," the keeper sneered. "Except now he's attached.
An attached dragon isn't any good except to the person or thing he's
attached to."
            "Well,
who's he attached to?"
            "Don't
get smart with me! He's attached to you! Has been ever since you fed
him."
            "Well,
feed him again and unattach him! I have pressing matters elsewhere."
            "Just
like that, huh?" the Deveel said skeptically, towering to new
heights. "You know very well it doesn't work that way. Once a
dragon's attached, it's attached forever. That's why they're so
valuable."
            "Forever?"
I asked.
            "Well…
until one of you dies. But any fool knows not to feed a dragon unless
they want it attached to them. The idiot beasts are too
impressionable, especially the young ones like this."
            I
looked at the dragon again. He was very young. His wings were just
beginning to bud, which I took as a sign of immaturity, and his fangs
were needle-sharp instead of worn to rounded points like his brethren
in the stall. Still, there was strength in the muscles rippling
beneath those scales… yes, I decided, I'd back my dragon in a
fight against any….
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, licking both ends of his mustache simultaneously
with his forked tongue.
            That
brought me to my senses. A dragon? What did I want with a dragon?
            "Well."
I said haughtily, "I guess I'm not just any fool, then. If I had
known the consequences of allowing him to eat my sleeve, I would
have…"
            "Look,
sonny!" The Deveel snarled, poking my chest again. "If you
think you're going to…."
            Something
inside me snapped. I knocked his hand away with a fury that surprised
me.
            "The
name isn't 'Sonny,' " I hissed in a low voice I didn't recognize
as my own. "It's Skeeve! Now lower your voice when you're
talking to me and keep your dirty finger to yourself!"
            I
was shaking, though whether from rage or from fear I couldn't tell. I
had spent my entire burst of emotion in that tirade and now found
myself wondering if I would survive the aftermath.
            Surprisingly,
the keeper gave ground a few steps at my tirade, and was now studying
me with new puzzlement. I felt a pressure at the back of my legs and
risked a glance. The dragon was now crouched behind me, craning his
neck to peer around my waist at the keeper.
            "I'm
sorry." The keeper was suddenly humble and fawning. "I
didn't recognize you at first. You said your name was…?"
            "Skeeve."
I prompted haughtily.
            "Skeeve."
He frowned thoughtfully. "Strange. I don't remember that name."
            I
wasn't sure who or what he thought I was, but if I had learned one
thing traveling with Aahz, it was to recognize and seize an advantage
when I saw one.
            "The
secrecy surrounding my identity should be a clue in itself, if you
know what I mean," I murmured, giving him my best conspiratorial
wink.
            "Of
course," he responded. "I should have realized
immediately…."
            "No
matter," I yawned. "Now then, about the dragon…."
            "Yes.
Forgive me for losing my temper, but you can see my predicament."
            It
seemed strange having someone that immense simpering at me, but I
rose to the occasion. "Well, I'm sure we can work something
out," I smiled.
            As
I spoke, a thought flashed through my head. Aahz had all our money! I
didn't have a single item of any value on me except….
            I
reached into my pocket, forcing myself to make the move casual. It
was still there! The charm I had taken from Quigley's statue-body
that allowed the wearer to see through spells. I had taken it when
Aahz wasn't looking and had kept it hidden in case it might be useful
in some crisis. Well, this definitely looked like a crisis!
            "Here!"
I said, tossing the charm to him. "I believe this should settle
our accounts."
            He
caught it deftly and gave it a fast, squinting appraisal.
            "This?"
he said. "You want to purchase a hatchling dragon for this?"
            I
had no idea of the charm's relative worth, but bluffing had gotten me
this far.
            "I
do not haggle," I said coldly. "That is my first and final
offer. If it is not satisfactory, then return the charm and see if
you can get a better price for an attached dragon."
            "You
drive a hard bargain, Skeeve." The Deveel was still polite, but
his smile looked like it hurt. "Very well, it's a deal. Shake on
it." He extended his hand.
            

            There
was a sudden hissing noise and my vision was obscured. The dragon had
arched his neck forward over my head and was confronting the Deveel
eye-to-eye. His attitude was suddenly a miniature version of the
ferocity I had seen displayed earlier by his larger brethren. I
realized with a start that he was defending me!
            Apparently
the keeper realized it too, for he jerked back his hand as if he had
just stuck it in an open fire.
            "…
if you could call off your dragon long enough for us to dose the
deal?" he suggested with forced politeness.
            I
wasn't sure just how I was supposed to do this, but I was willing to
give it a try.
            "He's
okay!" I shouted, thumping the dragon on the side of the neck to
get his attention.
            "Gleep?"
said the dragon, turning his head to peer into my face.
            I
noticed his breath was bad enough to kill an insect in flight.
            "It's
okay," I repeated, edging out from under his neck.
            Since
I was already moving, I stepped forward and shook the keeper's hand.
He responded absently, never taking his eyes from the dragon.
            "Say,"
I said. "Confidentially, I'm rather new to the dragon game. What
does he eat… besides shirts. I mean."
            "Oh,
a little of this and a little of that. They're omnivorous, so they
can eat anything, but they're picky eaters. Just let him alone and
he'll choose his own diet… old clothes, selected leaves, house
pets."
            "Terrific!
"I mumbled.
            "Well,
if you'll excuse me I've got other customers to talk to."
            "Just
a minute! Don't I get one of those pendants like you used to control
the big dragons?"
            "Hmm?
What for?"
            "Well…
to control my dragon."
            "Those
are to control unattached dragons. You don't need one for one that's
attached to you and it wouldn't work on a dragon that's attached to
someone else."
            "Oh,"
I said, with a wisdom I didn't feel.
            "If
you want one, though, I have a cousin who has a stall that sells
them. It's about three rows up and two rows over. It might be a good
investment for you. Could save wear and tear on your dragon if you
come up against an unattached dragon. It'd give junior there a better
chance of growing up."
            "That
brings up another question," I said. "How long does it
take?"
            "Not
long. It's just three rows up and…."
            "No.
I mean how long until my dragon reaches maturity?"
            "Oh,
not more than four or five centuries."
            "Gleep!"
            I'm
not sure if the dragon said that or I did.
        

        

            

                Chapter Nineteen
            

            
                By persevering over all obstacles and distractions, one may unfailingly arrive at his chosen goal or destination.
                C. Columbus
            
            "C'MON.
Gleep," I said.
            "Gleep,"
my dragon responded, falling in behind me.
            Now
that I was the not-so-proud owner of a permanently immature dragon, I
was more eager than ever to find Aahz. At the moment, I was alone in
a strange dimension, penniless, and now I had a dragon tagging after
me. The only way things could be worse would be if the situation
became permanent, which could happen if Aahz decided to return to
Klah without me.
            The
place previously occupied by the Pervish restaurant tent was
definitely empty, even at close examination, so I decided to ask the
Deveel running the neighboring booth.
            "Um…
excuse me, sir."
            I
decided I was going to be polite as possible for the duration of my
stay on Deva. The last thing I needed was another dispute with a
Deveel. It seemed, however, in this situation I needn't have worried.
            "No
excuses are necessary, young sahr." The proprietor smiled
eagerly, displaying an impressive number of teeth.
            "You
are interested in purchasing a stick?"
            'A
stick?"
            "Of
course!" the Deveel gestured grandly around his stall. "The
finest sticks in all the dimensions."
            "Aah…
thanks, but we have plenty of sticks in my home dimension."
            "Not
like these sticks, young sahr. You are from Klah, are you not?"
            "Yes,
why?"
            "I
can guarantee you, there are no such sticks as these in all of Klah.
They come from a dimension only I have access to and I have not sold
them in Klah or to anyone who was going there."
            Despite
myself, my curiosity was piqued. I looked again at the sticks lining
the walls of the stall. They looked like ordinary sticks such as
could be found anywhere.
            "What
do they do?" I asked cautiously.
            "Aah!
Different ones do different things. Some control animals, others
control plants. A few very rare ones allow you to summon an army of
warriors from the stones themselves. Some of the most powerful
magicians of any dimension wield staffs of the same wood as these
sticks, but for most people's purposes the Smaller model will
suffice."
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, sniffing at one of the sticks.
            "Leave
it alone!" I barked, shoving his head away from the display.
            All
I needed was to have my dragon eat up the entire stock of one of
these super-merchants.
            "May
I inquire, is that your dragon, young sahr?"
            "Well…
sort of."
            "In
that case, you might find a particular use for a stick most magicians
wouldn't."
            "What's
that?"
            "You
could use it to beat your dragon."
            Gleep!"
said the dragon, looking at me with his big blue eyes.
            "Actually,
I'm not really interested in a stick."
            I
thought I'd better get to my original purpose before this
conversation got out of hand.
            "Ridiculous,
young sahr. Everybody should have a stick."
            "The
reason I stopped here in the first place is I wondered if you knew
what happened to that tent."
            "What
tent, young sahr?"
            I
had a vague feeling of having had this conversation before.
            "The
tent that was right there next to your stall."
            "The
Pervish restaurant?" The Deveel's voice was tinged with horror.
            "Gleep,"
said the dragon.
            "Why
would you seek such place, young sahr? You seem well-bred and
educated."
            "I
had a friend who was inside the tent when it vanished."
            "You
have a Pervert for a friend?" His voice had lost its friendly
tone.
            "Well
actually… urn… it's a long story."
            "I
can tell you this much, punk. It didn't disappear, it moved on,"
the Deveel snarled, without the accent or politeness he had displayed
earlier.
            "Moved
on?"
            "Yeah.
It's a new ordinance we passed. AU places serving Pervish food have
to migrate. They cannot be established permanently, or even
temporarily at any point in the Bazaar."
            "Why?"
I asked.
            "Have
you ever smelled Pervish food? It's enough to make a scavenger
nauseous. Would you want to man a stall downwind of that for a whole
day? In this heat?"
            "I
see what you mean," I admitted.
            "Either
they moved or the Bazaar did, and we have them outnumbered."
            "But
what exactly do you mean, move?"
            "The
tents! All that's involved is a simple spell or two. Either they
constantly move at a slow pace, or they stay in one place for a short
period and then scuttle off to a new location, but they all move."
            "How
does anyone find one, then, if they keep moving around?"
            "That's
easy, just follow your nose."
            I
sniffed the air experimentally. Sure enough, the unmistakable odor
was still lingering in the air.
            "Gleep!"
the dragon had imitated my action and was now rubbing his nose with
one paw.
            "Well,
thank you… for… your…."
            I
was talking to thin air. The Deveel was at the other end of the
stall, baring his teeth at another customer. It occurred to me that
the citizens of Deva were not particularly concerned with social
pleasantries beyond those necessary to transact a sale.
            I
set out to follow the smell of the Pervish restaurant with the dragon
faithfully trailing along behind. Despite my growing desire to
reunite with Aahz, my pace was considerably slower than that Aahz had
set when we first arrived. I was completely mesmerized by this
strange Bazaar and wanted to see as much of it as I could.
            Upon
more leisurely examination, there did seem to be a vague order to the
Bazaar. The various stalls and booths were generally grouped by type
of merchandise. This appeared to be more from circumstance than by
plan. Apparently, if one Deveel set up a display, say, of invisible
cloaks, in no time at all he had a pack of competitors in residence
around him, each vying to top the other for quality of goods or
prices. Most of the confused babble of voices were disputes between
the merchants over the location of their respective stalls or the
space occupied by the same.
            The
smell grew stronger as I wandered through an area specializing in
exotic and magical jewelry, which I resisted the temptation to
examine more closely. The temptation was even stronger as I traversed
an area which featured weaponry. It occurred to me that I might find
a weapon here we could use against Isstvan, but the smell of the
Pervish food was even stronger now, and I steeled myself to finish my
search. We could look for a weapon after I found Aahz. From the
intensity of the stench, I was sure we would find our objective soon.
            "C'mon,
Gleep," I encouraged.
            The
dragon was hanging back now and didn't respond except to speed his
pace a bit.
            I
expectantly rounded one last corner and came 10 an abrupt halt. I had
found the source of the odor.
            I
was looking at the back of a large display of some alien livestock.
There was a large pile of some moist green and yellow substance in
front of me. As I watched, a young Deveel emerged from the display
holding a shovel filled with the same substance. He glanced at me
quizzically as he heaved the load onto the pile and returned to the
display.
            A
dung heap! I had been following the smell of a dung heap!
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, looking at me quizzically.
            He
seemed to be asking me what we were going to do next. That was a good
question.
            I
stood contemplating my next move. Probably the best chance would be
to retrace our steps back to the stick seller and try again.
            "Spare
a girl a little time, handsome?"
            I
whirled around. A girl was standing there, a girl unlike any I had
ever seen before. She was Klahdish in appearance and could have
passed for another of my dimension except for her complexion and
hair. Her skin was a marvelous golden-olive hue, and her head was
crowned with a mane of light green hair that shimmered in the sun.
She was a little taller than me and incredibly curvaceous, her
generous figure straining against the confines of her clothes.
            "…
or have you really got a thing about dung heaps?" she concluded.
            She
had almond cat-eyes that danced with mischief as she talked.
            "Um…
are you talking to me?" I stammered.
            "Of
course I'm talking to you," she purred, coming close to me and
twining her arms around my neck.
            "I'm
certainly not talking to your dragon. I mean, he's cute and all, but
my tastes don't run in those directions."
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon.
            I
felt my body temperature soar. The touch of her arms caused a
tingling sensation which seemed to wreak havoc on my metabolism.
            "Urn…
actually I'm looking for a friend," I blurted.
            "Well,
you've found one," she murmured, moving her body against me.
            "Aah…
I… urn." Suddenly I was having trouble concentrating.
"What is it you want?"
            "Hmm,"
she said thoughtfully, "Even though it's not my normal line, I
think I'd like to tell your fortune… free."
            "Oh?"
I said, surprised.
            This
was the first time since I reached the Bazaar that anyone had offered
me anything for free. I didn't know if I should be happy or
suspicious.
            "You're
going to have a fight," she whispered in my ear. "A big
one."
            "What?"
I exclaimed. "When? With who?"
            "Easy,
handsome." she warned, tightening her grip around my neck. "When
is in a very few minutes. With who is the rat pack over my shoulder…
don't look right at them!"
            Her
final sharp warning checked my reflexive glance. Moving more
cautiously, I snuck a peek out of the corner of my eye.
            Lounging
against a shop wall, watching us closely, were a dozen or so of the
ugliest, nastiest looking characters I have ever seen.
            "Them?
I mean, all of them?" I asked.
            "Uh-huh!"
she confirmed, snuggling into my chest.
            "Why?"
I demanded.
            "I
probably shouldn't tell you this," she smiled, "but because
of me."
            Only
her firm grip on me kept me from dislodging her with a shove.
            "You?
What about you?"
            "Well,
they're an awfully greedy bunch. One way or another, they're going to
make some money from this encounter. Normally, you'd give the money
to me and I'd cut them in for a share. In the unlikely event that
doesn't work, they'll pretend to be defending my honor and beat it
out of you."
            "But
you don't understand! I don't have any money."
            "I
know that. That's why you're going to get into a fight, see?"
            "If
you knew I didn't have any money, why did you…."
            "Oh,
I didn't know when I first stopped you. I found out just now when I
searched you."
            "Searched
me?"
            "Oh,
come on, handsome. There's more ways to search a person than with
your hands," she winked knowingly at me.
            "Well,
can't you tell them I don't have any money?"
            "They
wouldn't believe me. The only way they'd be convinced is searching
you themselves."
            "I'd
be willing to let them if that's what it takes to convince them."
            "I
don't think you would," she smiled, stroking my face with her
hand. "One of the things they'll look for is if you swallowed
your money."
            "Oh!"
I said, "I see what you mean. But I can't fight them. I don't
have any weapons."
            "You
have that little knife under your shirt at the small of your back,"
she pointed out.
            I
had forgotten about my skinning knife. I started to believe in her
no-hands frisking technique.
            "But
I've never been in a fight before."
            "Well,
I think you're about to learn."
            "Say,
why are you telling me all this, anyway?" I asked.
            "I
don't know," she shrugged. "I like your act. That's why I
singled you out in the first place. Then again, I feel a little
guilty about having gotten you into this."
            "Will
you help me?"
            "I
don't feel that guilty, handsome," she smiled. "But there
is one more thing I can do for you."
            She
started to pull me toward her.
            "Wait
a minute," I protested. "Won't that…."
            "Relax,
handsome," she purred. "You're about to get pounded for
offending my honor. You might as well get a little of the sweet along
with the bitter."
            Before
I could protest further, she kissed me. Long and warm and sweet, she
kissed me.
            I
had never been kissed by anyone except my mother. This was different!
The fight, the dragon, Aahz, everything faded from my mind. I was
lost in the wonder of that moment.
            "Hey!"
            A
rough hand fell on my shoulder and pulled us apart.
            "Is
this shrimp bothering you, lady?"
            The
person on the other end of that hand was no taller than I was, but he
was twice as broad and had short, twisted tusks protruding from his
mouth. His cronies had fanned out behind him, effectively boxing me
in against the dung heap.
            I
looked at the girl. She shrugged and backed away.
            It
looked like I was going to have to fight all of them. Me and the
dragon. Terrific.
            I
remembered my skinning knife. It wasn't much, but it was all I had.
As casually as I could, I reached behind me and tugged at my shirt,
trying to pull it up so I could get at the knife. The knife promptly
fell down inside my pants.
            The
wrecking crew started forward.
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty
            

            
                With the proper consideration in choice of allies, victory may be guaranteed in any conflict.
                B. Arnold
            
            "GET'em,
Gleep!" I barked.
            The
dragon bounded into action, a move which I think surprised me more
than it did my assailants.
            It
leaped between me and the advancing rat pack and crouched there,
hissing menacingly. His tail gave a mighty lash which neatly swept
the legs out from under two of the flanking members of the party.
Somehow, he seemed much bigger when he was mad.
            "Watch
out! He's got a dragon!" the leader called.
            "Thanks
for the warning!" one of the fallen men growled, struggling to
regain his feet.
            "I've
got him!" came a voice from my left.
            I
turned just in time to see a foot-long dagger flashing through the
air at the dragon's neck. My dragon!
            Suddenly
I was back at the practice sessions. My mind darted out and grabbed
at the knife. It jerked to a halt in midair and hovered there.
            "Nice
move, handsome!" the girl called.
            "Hey!
The shrimp's a magician!"
            The
pack fell back a few steps.
            "That's
right!" I barked. "Skeeve's the name, magik's the game.
What kind of clod did you think you were dealing with?"
            With
that, I brought the dagger down, swooping it back and forth through
their formation. I was mad now. One of these louts had tried to kill
my dragon!
            "A
dozen of you isn't enough!" I shouted. "Go back and get
some friends… if you have any!"
            I
cast about desperately for something else to throw. My eyes fell on
the dung heap. I smiled to myself despite my anger. Why not?
            In
a moment I had great gobs of dung hurtling through the air at my
assailants. My accuracy wasn't the best, but it was good enough as
the outraged howls testified.
            "Levitation!"
the leader bawled. "Quanto! Stop him!"
            "Right,
boss!"
            One
of the plug-uglies waved in affirmation and started rummaging through
his belt pouch.
            He
had made a mistake identifying himself. I didn't know what he was
about to come up with, but I was sure I didn't want to wait and find
out.
            "Stop
him, Gleep!" I ordered, pointing to the victim.
            The
dragon raised his head and fixed his gaze on the fumbling brigand.
With a sound that might have been a roar if he were older, he shot a
stream of flame and charged.
            It
wasn't much of a stream of flame, and it missed to boot, but it was
enough to get the brigand's attention. He looked up to see a mountain
of dragon flesh bearing down on him and panicked. Without pausing to
call to his comrades, he spun and ran off screaming with the dragon
in hot pursuit.
            

            "Okay,
shrimp! Let's see you stop this!"
            I
jerked my attention back to the leader. He was standing now,
confidently holding aloft a stick. Yesterday it wouldn't have fazed
me, but knowing what I did now, I froze. I didn't know what model it
was, but apparently the leader was confident its powers would surpass
my own.
            He
grinned evilly and slowly began to level the stick at me.
            I
tried desperately to think of a defense, but couldn't. I didn't even
know what I was supposed to be defending against!
            Suddenly,
something flashed across my line of vision and the stick was gone.
            I
blinked and looked again. The stick was lying on the ground, split by
a throwing knife, a black-handled throwing knife.
            "Any
trouble here, Master Skeeve?" a voice boomed.
            I
spun toward the source of the voice. Aahz was standing there, cocked
crossbow leveled at the pack. He was grinning broadly, which I have
mentioned before is not that comforting to anyone who doesn't know
him.
            "A
Pervert!" the leader gasped.
            "What?"
Aahz swung the crossbow toward him.
            "I
mean a Pervect!" the leader amended hastily.
            "That's
better. How about it, Skeeve? You want 'em dead or running?"
            I
looked at the rat pack. Without breaking their frozen tableau, they
pleaded with me with their eyes.
            "Um…
running, I think," I said thoughtfully. "They smell bad
enough alive. Dead they might give the Bazaar a bad name."
            "You
heard him," Aahz growled. "Move!"
            They
disappeared like they had melted into the ground.
            "Aahz!"
            

            The
girl came flying forward to throw her arms around him.
            "Tanda!"
Aahz exclaimed, lowering the crossbow. "Are you mixed up with
that pack?"
            "Are
you kidding? I'm the bait!" she winked bawdily.
            'Little
low class for you, isn't it?"
            "Aah…
it's a living."
            "Why'd
you leave the Assassins?"
            "Got
tired of paying union dues."
            "Um…
harrumph…." I interrupted.
            "Hmm?"
Aahz looked around. "Oh! Sorry, kid. Say,
have you two met?"
            "Sort
of," the girl acknowledged. "We… say, is this the
friend you were looking for, handsome?"
            "Handsome?"
Aahz wrinkled his nose.
            "Well,
yes," I admitted. "We got separated back by the…."
            "Handsome?"
Aahz repeated.
            "Oh,
hush!" the girl commanded, slapping his stomach playfully. "I
like him. He's got style."
            "Actually,
I don't believe we've met formally," I said, giving my most
winning smile. "My name is Skeeve."
            "Well,
la-de-dah!" Aahz grumbled.
            "Ignore
him. I'm Tananda, but call me Tanda."
            "Love
to, "I leered.
            "If
you two are quite through…." Aahz interrupted, "I
have a couple questions…."
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, prancing up to our assemblage.
            "What's
that?" Aahz demanded.
            "It's
a dragon," I said helpfully.
            Tanda
giggled rudely.
            "I
know that," Aahz barked. "I mean what is he doing here?"
            Suddenly
I was hesitant to supply the whole story.
            "There
are lots of dragons at the Bazaar, Aahz," I mumbled, not looking
at him. "In fact, there's a stall just down the way that…."
            "What
is that dragon doing here?!"
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, rubbing his head against my chest.
            "Urn…
he's mine," I admitted.
            "Yours?"
Aahz bellowed. "I told you to look at the dragons, not buy one!"
            "But
Aahz…."
            "What
are we going to do with a dragon?"
            "I
got a good deal on him," I chimed hopefully.
            "What
did you say. kid?"
            "I
said I got a good deal…."
            "From
a Deveel?"
            "Oh.
I see what you mean."
            "C'mon.
Let's have it. What were the terms of this fantastic deal?"
            "Well…
I… that is…."
            "Out
with it!"
            "I
traded Quigley's pendant for him."
            "Quigley's
pendant? The one that sees through spells? You traded a good magical
pendant for a half-grown dragon?"
            "Oh,
give him a break, Aahz," Tanda interrupted. "What do you
expect letting him wander off alone that way? You're lucky he didn't
get stuck with half the tourist crud on Deva! Where were you all this
time, anyway?"
            "Well…
I was… urn…."
            "Don't
tell me," she said, holding up a hand. "If I know you, you
were either chasing a girl or stuffing your face, right?"
            "She's
got you there, Aahz," I commented.
            "Shut
up, kid."
            "…
so don't get down on Skeeve here. Compared to what could have
happened to him, he didn't do half bad. How did you find us. anyway?"
            "I
listened for the sounds of a fight and followed it," Aahz
admitted.
            "See!
You were expecting him to get into trouble. Might I point out he was
doing just fine before you barged in. He and his dragon had those
thugs treed all by themselves. He's pretty handy with that magik, you
know."
            "I
know," Aahz responded proudly. "I taught him."
            "Gee,
thanks, Aahz."
            "Shut
up, kid."
            "Gleep,"
said the dragon, craning his neck around to look at Aahz upside down.
            "A
dragon, huh?" Aahz said, studying the dragon more thoughtfully.
            "He
might help us against Isstvan," I suggested hopefully.
            "Isstvan?"
Tanda asked quizzically.
            "Yeah,"
Aahz replied. "You remember him, don't you? Well, he's up to his
old tricks, this time on Klah."
            "So
that's what's going on, huh? Well, what are we going to do about it?"
            "We?"
I asked, surprised.
            "Sure,"
she smiled. "This racket is a bit low class, like Aahz says. I
might as well tag along with you two for a while… if you don't
mind, that is."
            "Terrific!"
I said, and meant it for a change.
            "Not
so fast, Tanda," Aahz cautioned. "There are a few details
you haven't been filled in on yet."
            "Such
as?"
            "Such
as I've lost my powers."
            "No
fooling? Gee, that's tough."
            "That
means we'll be relying on the kid here to give us cover in the magik
department."
            "All
the more reason for me to come along. I've picked up a few tricks
myself."
            "I
know," Aahz leered.
            "Not
like that," she said, punching him in the side. "I mean
magik tricks."
            "Even
so, it's not going to be easy."
            "C'mon,
Aahz," Tanda chided. "Are you trying to say it wouldn't be
helpful having a trained Assassin on your side?"
            "Well…
it could give us a bit of an advantage," Aahz admitted.
            "Good!
Then it's settled. What do we do first?"
            "There're
some stalls just around the corner that carry weapons," I
suggested. "We could…."
            "Relax,
kid. I've already taken care of that."
            "You
have?" I asked, surprised.
            "Yeah.
I found just what we need over in the practical jokes section. I was
just looking for you before we headed back."
            "Then
we're ready to go?" Tanda asked.
            "Yep,"
Aahz nodded, fishing the D-Hopper out of his shirt.
            "What
about my dragon?"
            "What
about him?"
            "Are
we going to take him with us?"
            "Of
course we're going to take him with us. We don't leave anything of
value behind."
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon.
            "…
and he must be valuable to someone!" Aahz finished, glaring at
the dragon.
            He
pressed the button on the D-Hopper. The Bazaar wavered and faded…
and we were back in Frumple's shop… sort of.
            "Interesting
place you've got here," Tanda commented dryly. "Did you do
the decor?"
            All
that was left of Frumple's shop was a burnt-out shell.
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty-One
            

            
                One must deal openly and fairly with one's forces if maximum effectiveness is to be achieved.
                D. Vader
            
            "WHAT
happened?" I demanded of Aahz.
            "Hey,
kid. I was on Deva, too. Remember?"
            "Urn…
hey, guys. I hate to interrupt," Tanda interrupted, "but
shouldn't something be done about disguises?"
            She
was right. Being on Deva had made me forget the mundane necessities
of our existence. I ignored Aahz's sarcastic reply and set to work.
            Aahz
returned to his now traditional Garkin disguise. Tanda was fine once
I changed her complexion and the color of her hair. After a bit of
thought, I disguised Gleep as the war unicorn. It was a bit risky,
but it would do as long as he kept his mouth shut. Me, I left as
myself. I mean, what the heck. Tanda liked my looks the way they
were.
            Fortunately
the sun wasn't up yet, so there weren't any people about to witness
the transformation.
            "Say,
handsome," Tanda commented, observing the results of my work,
"you're a pretty handy guy to have around."
            "His
name's Skeeve," Aahz grumbled.
            "Whatever."
Tanda murmured. "He's got style."
            She
snuggled up to me.
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, pressing his head against my other side.
            I
was starting to feel awfully popular.
            "If
you can spare a few minutes, kid," Aahz commented dryly, "we
do have a mission, remember?"
            "That's
right," I said, forcing my attention away from Tanda's advances.
"What do you think happened to Frumple?"
            "Either
the citizens of Twixt got wise to him, or he's off to tell Isstvan
we're coming, would be my two guesses."
            "Who's
Frumple?" Tanda asked.
            "Hmm?
Oh, he's the resident Deveel," Aahz said. "He's the one who
helped us get to the Bazaar."
            "…
at sword point," I added sarcastically.
            "What's
a Deveel doing here?"
            "All
we know is that rumor has it he was barred from Deva," I told
her.
            "Hmm…
sounds like a bit of a nasty character."
            "Well,
he won't win any popularity contests."
            "It
occurs to me," Aahz interrupted, "that if either of my two
guesses are correct, we'd best be on our way. Time seems to be
running out."
            "Right,"
agreed Tanda. "Which way is Isstvan?"
            "First,
we've got to pick up Quigley," I inserted.
            "Why?"
asked Aahz. "Oh, I suppose you're right, kid. We're going to
need all the help we can muster."
            "Who's
Quigley?" Tanda asked.
            "Later,
Tanda," Aahz insisted. "First help us see if there's
anything here worth salvaging."
            Unfortunately,
there wasn't. In fact, there weren't even the charred remains of
anything left for our discovery. Even the garish sword I had left
behind seemed to have vanished.
            "That
settles it," Aahz commented grimly as we completed our search.
"He's on his way to Isstvan."
            "The
natives might have taken the sword after they burned the place,"
I suggested hopefully.
            "No
way, kid. Even yokels like these wouldn't bother with a crummy sword
like that."
            "It
was that bad?" Tanda asked.
            "It
was that bad," Aahz assured her firmly.
            "If
it was that worthless, why would Frumple take it with him?" I
asked.
            "For
the same reason we've been lugging it around," Aahz said
pointedly. "There's always some sucker to unload it on for a
profit. Remember Quigley?"
            "Who's
Quigley?" Tanda insisted.
            "Well,"
sighed Aahz, "at the moment he's a statue, but in duller times
he's a demon hunter."
            "Swell,"
she commented sarcastically. "Just what we need."
            "Wait
until you meet him," Aahz rolled his eyes and sighed. "Oh
well, let's go."
            Our
departure from Twixt was blissfully uneventful. On the road, we
rehearsed our story until, by the time we finally dug up Quigley and
sprinkled him with the restoring power, we were ready to present a
united front.
            "Really?
Turned to stone, you say?" he said, brushing the dirt from his
clothes.
            "Yes,"
Aahz assured him. "They were looting your body when we launched
our counterattack. It's lucky for you we decided to come back and
fight at your side."
            "And
they took my magik sword and my amulet?"
            I
felt a little uneasy on those subjects, but Aahz never batted an eye.
            "That's
right, the blaggards'" he snarled. "We tried to stop them,
but they eluded us."
            "Well,
at least they didn't get my war unicorn," muttered the demon
hunter.
            "Urn…."
I said, bracing myself for my part in this charade. "We've got
some bad news about that, too."
            "Bad
news?" Quigley frowned, "I don't understand. I can see the
beast with my own eyes and he seems fit enough."
            "Oh,
he's fine physically," Aahz reassured him. "but before they
disappeared, the demons put a spell on him."
            "A
spell?"
            "Yes."
I said. "Now he… urn… well… he thinks he's
a dragon."
            "A
dragon?" Quigley exclaimed.
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon.
            "And
that's not all," Aahz continued. "The beast was so wild at
first that only through the continued efforts of my squire here were
we able to gentle him at all. Frankly, I was for putting the poor
animal out of its misery, but he insisted he could tame it and you
see before you the results of his patient teachings."
            "That's
wonderful!" exclaimed Quigley.
            "No.
That's terrible," corrected Aahz. "You see, in the process,
your animal has formed a strong attachment for my squire…
stronger, I fear, than his attachment for you."
            "Hah!
Ridiculous," Quigley proclaimed. "But I do feel I owe you
an additional debt of gratitude, lad. If there's ever anything I
can…"
            He
began to advance on me with his hand extended. In a flash, Gleep was
between us, head down and hissing.
            Quigley
froze, his eyes bulging with surprise. "Stop that!" I
ordered, cuffing the dragon.
            "Gleep!"
said the dragon, slinking back to his place behind me.
            "See
what I mean?" Aahz said pointedly.
            "Hnun…."
Quigley mumbled thoughtfully.
            "That's
strange, he never defended me that way."
            "I
guess we'll just have to buy him from you," I said eagerly.
            "Buy
him?" Quigley turned his attention to me again.
            Aahz
tried to catch my eye, shaking his head emphatically, but I ignored
him.
            "That's
right," I continued. "He's no good to you this way, and
since we're sort of to blame for what happened to him…."
            "Think
nothing of it, lad." Quigley drew himself up proudly. "I
give him to you as a gift. After all, if it weren't for you he'd be
dead anyway, and so would I, for that matter."
            "But…"
            "No!
I will hear nothing more." The demon hunter held up a
restraining hand. "The matter is closed. Treat him well, lad.
He's a good animal."
            "Terrific,"
muttered Aahz.
            "Gleep,"
said the dragon.
            I
felt miserable. It had occurred to me that our plans involved taking
shameless advantage of Quigley's gullibility. As he was my only
fellow Klahd in this adventure, I had wanted to force Aahz into
giving him some money under the guise of buying the "war
unicorn." It would have salved my conscience a bit, but
Quigley's generosity and sense of fair play had ruined my plan. Now I
felt worse than before.
            "Actually,
Quigley," Aahz smiled, "If there's anyone you should thank,
it should be Tananda here. If it were not for her, we would be in
dire straits indeed."
            "It's
about time," mumbled Tanda, obviously unimpressed with Aahz's
rhetoric.
            "Charmed,
milady," Quigley smiled, taking her hand to kiss.
            "She's
a witch," added Aahz casually.
            "A
witch?" Quigley dropped her hand as if it had bitten him.
            "That's
right, sugar," Tanda smiled, batting her eyes at him.
            "Perhaps
I should explain," Aahz interrupted mercifully. "Tananda
here has certain powers she has consented to use in support of our
war on demons. You already noticed I have regained my normal
appearance?"
            Another
blatant lie. Aahz was currently disguised as Garkin.
            "Yes,"
the demon hunter admitted hesitantly.
            "Tananda's
work," Aahz confided. "Just as it was her powers that
restored you after you had been turned to stone."
            "Hmmm…."
Quigley said, looking at Tanda again.
            "Really,
you must realize, Quigley, that when one fights demons, sometimes it
is helpful to employ a demon's weapons," Aahz admonished gently.
            "Tananda
here can be a powerful ally… and frankly, I find your attitude
toward her deplorable and ungrateful."
            "Forgive
me, milady," Quigley sighed, stepping up to her again. "I
did not mean to offend you. It's just that… well… I've
had some bad experiences with those who associate with demons."
            "Think
nothing of it, sugar," said Tanda the demon, taking his hand,
"And call me Tanda."
            While
they were occupied with each other, I seized the opportunity and
snagged Aahz's arm.
            "Hm?
What is it, kid?"
            "Give
him back his sword!" I hissed.
            "What?
No way, kid. By my count he's still got five pieces of gold left.
I'll sell it to him."
            "But
he gave us his unicorn."
            "He
gave us a dragon… your dragon! I fail to see anything
benevolent in that."
            "Look,
Aahz. Either you give him that sword or you can work your own magik!
Get me?"
            "Talk
about ingratitude! Look kid, if you…."
            "Aahz!"
Tanda's voice interrupted our dispute. "Come help me convince
Quigley to join our mission."
            "Would
that I could, milady," Quigley sighed, "but I would be of
little help. This late misfortune has left me afoot, weaponless, and
penniless."
            "Actually,"
Aahz chimed, "you still have five…."
            I
interrupted him with an elbow in his ribs.
            "What
was that, Aahz?" Quigley asked.
            "Aah…
my… um… squire and I were just discussing that and we
have reached a decision. So… um… so fine a warrior
should not be left so destitute, so… um… we…."
            "We've
decided to give you back your sword," I announced proudly.
            "Really?"
Quigley's face lit up.
            "I
didn't know you had it in you, Aahz," Tanda smiled sweetly.
            "I
say, this is comradeship indeed." Quigley was obviously beside
himself with joy. "How can I ever repay you?"
            "By
never mentioning this to anyone," Aahz growled.
            "How's
that again?"
            "I
said don't mention it," Aahz amended. "It's the least we
can do."
            "Believe
him," I smiled.
            "Now
I will gladly assist you on your mission," Quigley answered.
"Why, with a weapon and good comrades, what more could a warrior
ask for?"
            "Money,"
Aahz said bluntly.
            "Oh
Aahz." Tanda punched him a little too hard for it to be playful.
"You're such a kidder."
            "Don't
you want to know what the mission is?" I asked Quigley.
            "Oh,
yes, I suppose you're right, lad. Forgive me. I was carried away by
my enthusiasm."
            "Tell
him, Skeeve," prompted Tanda.
            "Actually,"
I said, with a sudden flash of diplomacy, "Aahz explains it much
better than I do."
            "It's
really quite simple," mumbled Aahz, still sulking a bit. "We're
going after Isstvan."
            "Isstvan?"
Quigley looked puzzled. "The harmless old inn-keeper?"
            "Harmless?
Harmless, did you say?" Aahz took the bait. "Quigley, as
one demon hunter to another, you've got a lot to learn."
            "I
do all right for myself."
            "Sure
you do. That's why you got turned to stone, remember?"
            "I
got turned to stone because I put my faith in a magik sword that…."
            Things
were back to normal.
            "Gentlemen,
gentlemen," I interrupted. "We were talking about the
upcoming mission."
            "Right,
kid. As I was saying, Quigley, that harmless old inn-keeper is
working so closely with demons I wouldn't be surprised to learn he
was one himself."
            "Impossible!"
scoffed Quigley. "Why, the man sent me out hunting for demons."
            "Ahh!"
smiled Aahz. "Therein lies the story." I caught Tanda's
eyes and winked. She smiled back at me and nodded. This might take a
while, but as of now Quigley was in the bag!
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty-Two
            

            
                This is another fine myth you've gotten me into!
                Lor L. and Har D.
            
            THERE
was something there in the shadows. I could sense its presence more
than see it. It was dark and serpentine… and it was watching
me. I was alone. I didn't know where the others had gone, but
I knew they were counting on me. "Who's there? "I called.
The voice that came back to me out of the darkness echoed hollowly.
            "I
am Isstvan, Skeeve. I've been waiting for you."
            "You
know who I am?" I asked, surprised.
            "I
know all about you and your friends. I've known all along what you're
trying to do."
            I
tried to set wards about me, but I couldn't find a force line. I
tried to run, but I was rooted to the spot. "See how my powers
dwarf yours? And you expected to challenge me."
            I
tried to fight back a wave of despair.
            "Wait
until the others come," I cried defiantly.
            "They
already have," the voice boomed. "Look!"
            Two
objects came rolling at me out of the darkness. I saw with horror
that they were heads! Tanda's and Quigley's!
            I
felt ill, but clung to a shred of hope. There was still no sign of
Aahz. If he was still at large, we might….
            "Don't
look to your Pervert for help," the voice answered my thoughts.
"I've dealt with him too."
            Aahz
appeared, sheathed in fire. He staggered and fell, writhing on the
ground as the flames consumed his body.
            "Now
it's just you and me, Skeeve!" the voice echoed. "You and
me."
            "I'll
go!" I shouted desperately. "You've won. Just let me go."
            The
darkness was moving closer.
            "It's
too late. I'm coming for you Skeeve… Skeeve…."
            "Skeeve!"
            Something
was shaking my shoulder. I bolted upright, blinking my eyes as the
world swam back into focus. The camp was asleep. Aahz was kneeling
beside me, the glow from the campfire's dying embers revealing the
concerned expression on his face.
            "Wake
up, kid! If you keep thrashing around, you'll end up in the fire."
            "It's
Isstvan!" I explained desperately. "He knows all about us."
            "What?"
            "I
was talking to him. He came into my dream!"
            "Hmmm…
sounds more like a plain old nightmare," Aahz proclaimed. "I
warned you not to let Tanda season the food."
            "Are
you sure?" I said doubtfully.
            "Positive,"
Aahz insisted. "If Isstvan knew we were coming, he'd hit us with
something a lot more powerful than making faces at you in a dream."
            I
guess that was supposed to reassure me. It didn't. All it did was
remind me I was thoroughly outclassed in the upcoming campaign.
            "Aahz,
can't you tell me anything about Isstvan? What he looks like, for
instance."
            "Not
a chance, kid," Aahz grinned at me.
            "Why
not?"
            "Because
we won't both see him the same way, or at least we wouldn't describe
him the same way. If I describe him to you, one of two things will
happen when you first see him. If he looks scarier to you than I've
described him, you'll freeze. If he looks more harmless than I've
described him, you'll relax. Either way, it'll slow your reactions
and give him the first move. There's no point in gaining the element
of surprise if we aren't going to use it."
            "Well,"
I persisted. "Couldn't you at least tell me about his powers?
What can he do?"
            "For
one thing, it would take too long. Just assume that if you can
imagine it, he can do it."
            "What's
the other?" I asked.
            "The
other what?"
            "You
said 'for one thing.' That implies you have at least one other
reason."
            "Hmm,"
Aahz pondered. "Well, I'm not sure you'll understand, but to a
certain degree what he can do, I mean the whole list, is irrelevant."
            "Why?"
            "Because
we're taking the initiative. That puts him in a reactive instead of
an active role."
            "You're
right," I said thoughtfully. "I don't understand."
            "Look
kid, if we just sat here and waited for him, he could take his time
and choose exactly what he wanted to do and when he wanted to do it.
That's an active role and lets him play with his entire list of
powers. Right?"
            "I
guess so."
            "But
we aren't doing that. We're carrying the attack to him. That should
limit him as to what he can do. There are only a certain number of
responses he can successfully use to each of our gambits, and he'll
have to use them because he can't afford to ignore the attack. Most
of all, we'll rob him of time. Instead of leisurely choosing what
he's going to do next, he'll have to choose fast. That means he'll go
with the option he's surest of, the one he does best."
            I
considered this for a few moments. It sort of made sense.
            "Just
one question, Aahz," I asked finally. "What's that, kid?"
            "What
if you've guessed wrong?"
            "Then
we drop back ten and punt," he answered lightly.
            "What's
a…."
            "Then
we try something else," he amended hastily.
            "Like
what?"
            "Can't
tell yet," Aahz shrugged. "Too many variables. We're going
with my best guess right now. Beyond that we'll just have to wait and
see."
            We
sat staring into the dying fire for a few minutes, each lost in our
own thoughts.
            "Say,
Aahz?" I said at last.
            "Yea,
kid?"
            "Do
you think we'll reach Isstvan before Frumple does?"
            "Relax,
kid. Frumple's probably drinking wine and pinching bottoms in some
other dimension by now."
            "But
you said…."
            "I've
had time to think about it since then. The only reason a Deveel does
anything is for a profit or out of fear. As far as his sticking his
head into this brawl goes, I figure the fear will outweigh the
profit. Trying to sell information to a madman is risky at best. My
bet is he's lying low until the dust settles."
            I
reminded myself again of my faith in Aahz's expertise in such
matters. It occurred to me, however, there was an awful lot of
guesswork in our planning.
            "Um,
Aahz? Wouldn't it be a little safer if we had invested in a couple of
those jazzy weapons back in Deva?"
            "We
don't need them," he replied firmly. "Besides, they're
susceptible to Gremlins. I'd rather go into a fight with a crude but
reliable weapon than pin my hopes on a contraption that's liable to
malfunction when you need it most."
            "Where
are Gremlins from?" I asked.
            "What?"
            "Gremlins.
You said…."
            "Oh,
that. It's just a figure of speech. There are no such things as
Gremlins."
            I
was only listening with half an ear. I suddenly realized that while I
could see Quigley's sleeping form, there was no sign of Tanda or
Gleep.
            "Where's…
urn… where's Gleep?" I asked abruptly.
            Aahz
grinned at me.
            "Gleep
is standing watch… and just in case you're interested, so's
Tanda."
            I
was vaguely annoyed he had seen through me so easily, but was
determined not to show it.
            "When
is… um… are they coming back?"
            "Relax,
kid. I told Tanda to leave you alone tonight. You need the sleep for
tomorrow."
            He
jerked his head pointedly toward the assassin's robe I had been using
for a pillow. I grudgingly resumed my horizontal position.
            "Did
I wake you up, Aahz?" I asked apologetically. "With the
nightmare, I mean."
            "Naw.
I was still up. Just making a few last-minute preparations for
tomorrow."
            "Oh,"
I said drowsily.
            "Say,
uh, kid?"
            "Yes,
Aahz?"
            "We
probably won't have much time to talk tomorrow when Quigley's awake,
so while we've got a few minutes alone I want to say however it goes
tomorrow… well… it's been nice working with you, kid."
            "Gee,
Aahz…." I said starting to sit up.
            A
rough hand interrupted me and pushed me back down.
            "Sleep!"
Aahz commanded, but there was a gentle note lurking in his gruff
tone.
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty-Three
            

            
                Since prehistoric man, no battle has ever gone as planned.
                D. Graeme
            
            WE
crouched in a grove of small trees on a knoll overlooking the inn,
studying our target. The inn was as Quigley had described it, an
isolated two-story building with an attached stable squatting by a
road overgrown with weeds. If Isstvan was relying on transients to
support his business, he was in trouble, except we knew he was doing
no such thing. He was mustering his strength to take over the
dimensions, and the isolated inn was a perfect base for him to work
from.
            "Are
you sure there are no wards?" Aahz whispered.
            He
addressed his question to Tanda. She in turn shot me a glance. I gave
a small nod of my head.
            "Positive,"
she whispered back.
            It
was all part of our plan. As far as Quigley was concerned, Tanda was
the only one of our group that had any supernatural powers.
            "Good,"
said the demon hunter. "Demon powers make me uneasy. The less we
have to deal with, the better I like it."
            "Don't
get your hopes up," Aahz commented, not taking his eyes from the
inn. "They're there all right.
            The
easier it is to get in, the harder it'll be to get out… and
they're making it awfully easy for us to get in."
            "I
don't like it," said Tanda firmly.
            "Neither
do I," admitted Aahz. "But things aren't going to get any
better, so let's get started. You might as well get into disguise
now."
            "Right,
Aahz," she said.
            Neither
of them looked at me. In fact Aahz stared directly at Tanda. This
kept Quigley's attention on her also, though I must admit it helped
that she began to writhe and gyrate wildly. Unobserved, I shut my
eyes and got to work.
            I
was getting pretty good at this disguise game, which was fortunate
because I was going to be sorely tested today. With a few masterful
strokes, I converted Tanda's lovely features into the dubious face of
the Imp Higgens… or rather Higgens's human disguise. This
done, I opened my eyes again.
            Tanda
was still gyrating. It was a pleasant enough sight that I was tempted
to prolong it, but we had work to do. I cleared my throat and Tanda
acknowledged the signal by stopping.
            "How
do I look?" she asked proudly.
            "Terrific!"
I exclaimed with no trace of modesty.
            Aahz
shot me a dirty look.
            "It's
uncanny!" Quigley marveled. "How do you do that?"
            "Professional
secret." Tanda winked at him.
            "Off
with you!" Aahz commanded. "And you too, Skeeve."
            "But
Aahz, couldn't I…."
            "No
you can't. We've discussed it before. This mission's far too
dangerous for a lad of your inexperience."
            "Oh.all
right, Aahz," I said, crestfallen.
            "Cheer
up, lad," Quigley told me. "Your day will come. If we fail,
the mission falls to you."
            "I
suppose so. Well, good luck…."
            I
turned to Tanda, but she was already gone, vanished as if the ground
had swallowed her up.
            "I
say!" exclaimed Quigley. "She does move quietly, doesn't
she?"
            "I
told you she could handle herself," Aahz said proudly. "Now
it's your turn, Skeeve."
            "Right,
Aahz!"
            I
turned to the dragon.
            "Stay
here, Gleep. I'll be back soon, and until then you do what Aahz says.
Understand?"
            "Gleep?"
said the dragon, cocking his head.
            For
a minute I thought he was going to ruin everything, but then he
turned and slunk to Aahz's side and stood there regarding me with
mournful blue eyes.
            Everything
was ready.
            "Well,
good-bye. Good luck!" I called, and trudged slowly back over the
knoll, hopefully a picture of abject misery.
            Once
out of sight, however, I turned and began to sprint as fast as I
could in a wide circle around the inn.
            On
the surface, our plan was quite simple. Aahz and Quigley were to give
Tanda enough time to circle around the inn and enter it over the
stable roof. Then they were to boldly enter the front door.
Supposedly this would create a diversion, allowing Tanda to attack
Isstvan magically from the rear. I was to wait safely on the knoll
until the affair was settled.
            In
actuality, our plan was a bit more complex. Unbeknownst to Quigley, I
was also supposed to circle the inn and find a covert entrance. Then,
at the appropriate moment, Tanda and I were to create a magical
diversion, allowing Aahz to use the secret weapon he had acquired on
Deva.
            A
gully blocked my path. I took to the air without hesitation and flew
over it. I had to be in position in time, or Aahz would have no
magical support at all.
            Actually
magik was quite easy here. The inn was sitting squarely on an
intersection of two ground force lines, while a force line in the air
passed directly overhead. Whatever happened in the upcoming battle of
magik, we wouldn't suffer for a lack of energy. I wished I knew more
about Aahz's secret weapon. He had been doggedly mysterious about it,
and neither Tanda nor I had been able to pry any information out of
him. He had said it had to be used at close range. He had said it
couldn't be used while Isstvan was watching him. He had said it was
our only hope to beat Isstvan. He had said it was supposed to be a
surprise. Terrific!
            Maybe
when all this was over I would find a mentor who didn't have a sense
of humor.
            I
slowed my pace. I was coming to the back of the inn now. The brush
had grown right up to the wall, which made my approach easy.
            I
paused and checked for wards again.
            Nothing.
            Trying
to force Aahz's "easy in, hard out" prophecy from my mind,
I scanned the upper windows. None of them were open, so I chose the
nearest one and levitated to it. Hovering there, I cautiously pushed,
then pulled at the frame.
            Locked!
            Hurriedly,
I pulled myself along the wall with my hands to the next window.
            Also
locked.
            It
occurred to me it would be ironic if, after all our magical
preparations, we were stopped by something as mundane as a locked
window.
            To
my relief, the next window yielded to my pressure, and in a moment I
was standing inside the inn, trying to get my heartbeat under
control.
            The
room I was in was furnished, but vacant. Judging from the dust on the
bed, it had been vacant for some time. I wondered for a moment where
demons slept, if they slept
at all, then forced the question from my mind. Time was running out
and I wasn't in position yet. I darted silently across the room and
tried the door.
            Unlocked!
            Getting
down on my hands and knees, I eased the door open and crawled
through, pushing it shut behind me.
            After
studying the inn's interior so often in Quigley's dirt sketches, it
seemed strange to actually be here. I was on the long side of an
L-shaped mezzanine which gave access to the upper-story rooms.
Peering through the bars of the railing that lined the mezzanine, 1
could look down into the inn proper.
            There
were three people currently occupying a table below, I recognized the
disguised features of Higgens and Brockhurst as two of them. The
third was sitting hunched with his back to me and I couldn't make out
his face.
            I
was debating shifting to another position to get a better view, when
a fourth figure entered bearing an enormous tray with a huge jug of
wine on it as well as an assortment of dirty flagons.
            "This
round's on the house, boys!" the figure chortled merrily. "Have
one on old Isstvan."
            Isstvan!
That was Isstvan?
            The
waddling figure below did not seem to display any of the menacing
features I had expected in a would-be ruler of the dimensions.
            Quickly
I checked him for a magical aura. There was none. It wasn't a
disguise. He really looked like that. I studied him carefully.
            He
was tall, but his stoutness kept his height from being imposing. He
had long white hair and a longer white beard which nearly covered his
chest with its fullness. His bright eyes were set in a face that
seemed to be permanently smiling, and his nose and cheeks were
flushed, though whether from drink or laughter I couldn't tell.
            This
was the dark figure of evil I had been dreading all these weeks? He
looked to be exactly what Quigley said he was… a harmless old
inn-keeper.
            A
movement at the far end of the mezzanine caught my eye. Tanda! She
was crouched behind the railing as I was on the other side of the
stairs, and at first I thought I had just seen the movement of her
easing into position. Then she looked my way and cautiously waved her
hand again, and I realized she was signaling for my attention. I
waved an acknowledgment, which she must have seen, for she stopped
signaling and changed to another set of actions. Glancing furtively
at the figures below to be
sure she wasn't observed, she began a strange pantomime. First she
made several repeated gestures around her forehead, then pointed
urgently behind her. I didn't understand, and shook my head to convey
this.
            She
repeated the gestures more emphatically, and this time I realized she
was actually pointing down and behind her. The stables! Something
about the stables.
            But
what about the stables?
            I
considered her first gesture again. She appeared to be stabbing
herself in the forehead. Something had hit her in the stables? She
had killed something in the stables? I shook my head again. She bared
her teeth at me in frustration.
            "Innkeep!"
            I
jumped a foot at the bellow.
            Aahz
and Quigley had just walked through the door. Whatever Tanda was
trying to tell me would just have to wait. Our attack had begun.
            "Two
flagons of your best wine… and send someone to see to my
unicorn."
            Aahz
was doing all the talking, of course. It had been agreed that he
would take the lead in the conversation. Quigley hadn't been too
happy about that, but in the end had consented to speaking only when
absolutely necessary.
            Their
entrance had had surprisingly little impact on the assemblage below.
In fact, Isstvan was the only one to even look in their direction.
            "Come
in. Come in, gentlemen," he smiled, spreading his arms wide in
welcome. "We've been expecting you!"
            "You
have?" blurted Quigley, echoing my thoughts. "Of course, of
course. You shouldn't try to fool old Isstvan." He shook a
finger at them in mock sternness. "Word was just brought to us
by… oh, I'm sorry. I haven't introduced you to my new
purchasing agent yet."
            "We've
met," came the voice of the hunched figure as he turned to face
them.
            Frumple!
            That's
what Tanda had been trying to tell me! The war unicorn, Quigley's
unicorn, was down in the stable. For all our speed, Frumple had
gotten here ahead of us.
            "Who
are you?" asked Quigley, peering at the Deveel.
            For
some reason this seemed to set Isstvan off into peals of laughter
from his eyes. "We are going to have such fun this afternoon!"
            He
gestured absently and the inn door slammed shut. There was a sudden
ripple of dull clunks behind me, and I realized the room doors were
locking themselves. We were sealed in! All of us.
            "I
don't believe I've had such a good time since I made love to my
week-dead sister."
            Isstvan's
voice was still jovial, but it struck an icy note of fear within me.
I realized that not only was he a powerful magician, he was quite
insane.
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty-Four
            

            
                Ya gotta be subtle!
                M.  Hammer
            
            THERE
was a tense, expectant silence as the foursome leaned forward to
study their captives. It was as if two song-birds had tried to edge
through a crowd of vultures to steal a snack only to find they were
the intended meal.
            I
knelt, watching in frozen horror, fully expecting to witness the
immediate demise of my two allies.
            "Since
Frumple's already announced us," Aahz said smoothly, "I
guess there's no need to maintain this disguise."
            The
confident tone of his voice steadied my shattered nerve. We were in
it now, and win or lose we'd just have to keep going.
            Quickly,
I shut my eyes and removed Aahz's Garkin disguise.
            "Aahz!"
cried Isstvan in delight. "I should have known it was you."
            "He's
the one who…." Brockhurst began.
            "Do
you two know each other?" Frumple asked, ignoring the Imp.
            "Know
each other?" Isstvan chortled. "We're old enemies. He and a
couple other scalawags nearly destroyed me the last time we met."
            "Well
it's our turn now, right Isstvan?" smiled Higgens, leisurely
reaching for his crossbow.
            "Now,
now!" said Isstvan, picking.the Imp up by his head and shaking
him gently. "Mustn't rush things."
            "Seems
to me," Aahz sneered, "that you're having trouble finding
decent allies, Isstvan."
            "Oh,
Aahz," Isstvan laughed. "Still the sharp tongue, eh?"
            "Imps?"
Aahz's voice was scornful. "C'mon, Isstvan. Even you can do
better than that."
            

            Isstvan
sighed and dropped Higgens back in his chair.
            "Well,
one does what one can. Inflation, you know."
            He
shook his head sadly, then brightened again.
            "Oh
you don't know how glad I am to see you, Aahz. I thought I was going
to have to wait until we conquered Perv before I got my revenge, and
here you just walk in. Now don't you dare pop off before we've
settled our score."
            "I
told you before," Frumple interrupted. "He's lost his
powers."
            "Powers.
Hmph! He never had any powers," Quigley chimed in, baited from
his frightened silence at the insult of having been ignored.
            "Well,
who do we have here?" Isstvan smiled, looking at Quigley for the
first time. "Have we met?"
            "Say
Isstvan," interrupted Aahz. "Mind if I have some of that
wine? No reason to be barbaric about this."
            "Certainly.
Aahz." Isstvan waved him forward. "Help yourself."
            It
was eerie listening to the conversation: apparently civilized and
friendly, it had a cat-and-mouse undercurrent which belied the casual
tones.
            "Watch
him!" Frumple hissed, glaring at Aahz.
            "Oh
Frumple! You are such a wart," Isstvan scolded. "Why you
were the one who assured me that he had lost his powers."
            "Well,
I think he makes sense," Brockhurst grumbled, rising and backing
away as Aahz approached the table. "If you don't mind, Isstvan,
I'll watch from over here."
            He
sat on the bottom steps of the flight of stairs heading up to the
mezzanine where Tanda and I were hidden. His tone was conversational,
but it was clear he was only waiting for Isstvan's signal to loose
him on the helpless pair.
            "Oh,
you Imps are worse than the Deveels!" Isstvan scowled.
            "That's
a given," Frumple commented dryly.
            "Now
look, Frumple…." Higgens began angrily.
            "As
to who this figure is," Frumple pointed to Quigley. ignoring the
Imps. "That is Garkin's apprentice. He's the one who's been
handling the magik for our Pervert since he lost his powers."
            "Really?"
asked Isstvan eagerly. "Can you do the cups and balls trick? I
love the cups and balls trick."
            "I
don't understand," mumbled Quigley vacantly, backing away from
the assemblage.
            Well,
if we were ever going to have a diversion, it would have to be now.
Closing my eyes, I changed Quigley's features. The obvious choice for
his disguise was… me!
            "See,"
said Frumple pointing proudly. "I told you so."
            "Throckwoddle!"
exclaimed the two Imps simultaneously.
            "What?"
said Frumple narrowing his eyes suspiciously.
            I
was ready for them. As the exclamations rose, I changed Quigley
again. This time, I gave him Throckwoddle features.
            "Why,
it is Throckwoddle," cried Isstvan. "Oh that's funny."
            "Wait
a minute!" Brockhurst hissed. "How could you be
Throckwoddle when we turned you into a statue before we caught up
with Throckwoddle?"
            This
set Isstvan off into even greater peals of laughter.
            "Stop,"
he called breathless. "Oh stop. Oh! My ribs hurt. Aahz, you've
out-done yourself this time."
            "It's
nothing really," Aahz acknowledged modestly.
            "There's
something wrong here!" Frumple declared. He plunged a hand deep
into his robe, never taking his eyes from Quigley. Almost too late I
realized what he was doing. He was going for his crystal, the one
that let him detect disguises. As the glittering bauble emerged, I
swung into action.
            A
simple levitation, a small flick with my mind, and the crystal popped
out of Frumple's grasp and plopped into the wine jug.
            "Framitz!"
Frumple swore, starting to fish for his possession.
            "Get
your hands out of the wine, Frumple!" Aahz chided slapping his
wrist. "You'll get your toy when we finish the jug!"
            As
if to illustrate his point, he hefted the jug and began refilling the
flagons around the table.
            "Enough
of this insanity!" Quigley exploded.
            I
winced at the use of the word "insanity," but Isstvan
didn't seem to mind. He merely leaned forward to watch Quigley.
            "I
am neither Skeeve nor Throckwoddle," Quigley continued, "I
am Quigley, demon hunter extraordinaire! Let any dispute who dare,
and man or demon I'll show him who I am!"
            This
proved too much for Isstvan, who actually collapsed in laughter.
            "Oh
he's funny, Aahz," he gasped. "Where did you find this
funny man?"
            "You
sent him to me, remember?" Aahz prompted.
            "Why
so I did, so I did," Isstvan mused, and even this fact he seemed
to find hysterically funny.
            The
others were not so amused.
            "So
you're a demon hunter, eh?" Frumple snarled. "What's your
gripe anyway?"
            "The
offenses of demons are too numerous to list," Quigley retorted
haughtily.
            "We
aren't going anywhere for a while," Brockhurst chimed in from
the stairs. "And neither are you. List us a few of these
offenses."
            "Well…"
began Quigley, "you stole my magik pendant and my magik sword…."
            "We
don't know anything about a magik pendant." Higgens bristled.
"And we gave your so-called magik sword to…."
            "What
else do demons do?" Frumple interrupted, apparently none too
eager to have the discussion turn to swords.
            "Well…
you bewitched my war unicorn into thinking he's a dragon!"
Quigley challenged.
            "Your
war unicorn is currently tethered in the stable," Higgens stated
flatly. "Frumple brought him in."
            "My
unicorn is tethered outside the door!" Quigley insisted. "And
he thinks he's a dragon!"
            "Your
unicorn is tethered in the stable," Higgens barked back. "And
we think you're a fruitcake!"
            "Gentlemen,
gentlemen," Isstvan managed to hold up his hands despite his
laughter. "All this is quite amusing, but… well, will you
look at that!"
            This
last was said in such a tone of wonder that the attention of everyone
in the room was immediately drawn to the spot he was looking at.
            Suspended
in midair, not two hand-spans from Isstvan's head, was a small red
dart with gold and black fletchings.
            "An
assassin's dart!" Isstvan marveled, gently plucking the missile
from where it was hovering. "Now who would be naughty enough to
try to poison me from behind?"
            His
eyes slowly moved to Brockhurst sitting casually on the stairs.
            Brockhurst
suddenly realized he was the object of everyone's attention. His eyes
widened in fright.
            "No!
I… Wait! Isstvan!" he half-rose holding out a hand as if
to ward off a blow. "I didn't… No! Don't. Glaag!"
            This
last was said as his hands suddenly flew to his throat and began
choking him violently. "Glaak… eak… urk…."
            He
fell back on the stairs and began rolling frantically back and forth.
            "Isstvan,"
Higgens began hesitantly, "normally I wouldn't interfere, but
don't you think you should hear what he has to say, first? "
            "But
I'm not doing anything!" Isstvan blinked with hurt innocence.
            My
eyes flashed to the other end of the mezzanine. Tanda was crouched
there, her eyes closed. She seemed to be choking an invisible person
on the floor in front of her. With dawning realization, I began to
appreciate more and more the subtleties of a trained assassin.
            "You
aren't doing anything?" Higgens shrilled, "Well, then do
something! He's dying!" "
            I
thought for a moment that the ludicrous statement would set Isstvan
to laughing again, but riot this time.
            "Oh,"
he sighed. "This is all so confusing. Yes, I guess you're
right."
            He
clicked his fingers and Brockhurst stopped thrashing about and began
breathing again in long, ragged breaths.
            "Here,
old boy," said Aahz. "Have some wine."
            He
offered Brockhurst a brimming flagon which the Imp began to gulp
gratefully.
            "Aahz,"
Isstvan said sternly. "I don't think you've been honest with
us."
            "Me?"
Aahz asked innocently.
            "Even
you couldn't have caused this much havoc without assistance. Now
where is it coming from?"
            He
closed his eyes and turned his face toward the ceiling for a moment.
            "Aah!"
he suddenly proclaimed. "Here it is."
            There
was a squawk from the other end of the mezzanine and Tanda was
suddenly lifted into view by unseen hands.
            "Higgens!"
exclaimed Isstvan, "Another one! Well, well, the day is full of
surprises."
            Tanda
held her silence as she was floated down to a chair on a level with
the others.
            "Now
let's see." Isstvan mumbled to himself. "Have we missed
anybody?"
            I
felt the sudden pressure of invisible forces and realized I was next.
I tried desperately to think of a disguise, but the only thing that
came to mind was Gleep… so I tried it.
            "A
dragon!" cried Brockhurst as I floated into view.
            "Gleep!"
I said, rolling my eyes desperately.
            "Oh
now that's too much," Isstvan pouted. "I want to see who
I'm dealing with."
            He
gave a vacant wave of his hand, and the disguises disappeared…
all of them. I was me, Quigley was Quigley, Tanda was Tanda, the Imps
were Imps, and the Deveel was a Deveel. Aahz, of course, was Aahz.
Apparently a moratorium had been declared on disguises… by a
majority of one… Isstvan.
            I
came drifting down to join the others, but my entrance was generally
ignored in the other proceedings.
            "Tanda!"
Isstvan cried enthusiastically. "Well, well. This is a reunion,
isn't it?"
            "Bark
at the moon, Isstvan," Tanda snarled defiantly.
            Quigley
was looking at everyone else with such speed I thought his head would
fall off.
            "I
don't understand!" he whimpered plaintively.
            "Shut
up, Quigley," Aahz growled. "We'll explain later."
            "That's
assuming there is a later," Frumple sneered.
            I
tended to agree with Frumple. The atmosphere, in the room no longer
had even the semblance of joviality. It was over. We had lost. We
were all exposed and captured, and Isstvan was as strong as ever.
Whatever Aahz's secret weapon was, it apparently hadn't worked.
            "Well,
I'm afraid all good things must come to an end," Isstvan sighed,
draining his flagon. "Now I'm afraid I'll have to dispose of
you."
            He
sounded genuinely sad, but somehow I couldn't muster any sympathy for
his plight.
            "Just
one question before we begin, Aahz," he asked in surprisingly
sane tones.
            "What's
that?" Aahz responded.
            "Why
did you do it? I mean, with as feeble a team as this, how did you
possibly hope to beat me?"
            Isstvan
sounded genuinely sincere.
            "Well,
Isstvan," Aahz drawled, "that's a matter of opinion."
            "What's
that supposed to mean?" Isstvan asked suspiciously.
            "I
don't 'hope' we can beat you," Aahz smiled. "I know we
can."
            "Really?"
Isstvan chuckled. "And upon what are you basing your logic?"
            "Why,
I'm basing it on the fact that we've already won," Aahz blinked
innocently. "It's all over, Isstvan, whether you realize it or
not."
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty-Five
            

            
                Just because you've beaten a sorcerer, doesn't mean you've beaten a sorcerer.
                Toth-Aamon
            
            "AAHZ,"
Isstvan said sternly, "there comes a time when even your humor
wears a little thin."
            "I'm
not kidding, Isstvan," Aahz assured him. "You've lost your
powers. Go ahead, try something. Anything!"
            Isstvan
hesitated. He closed his eyes.
            Nothing
happened.
            "You
see?" Aahz shrugged. "You've lost your powers. All of them.
And don't look to your associates for help. They're all in the same
boat."
            "You
mean we've really won?" I blurted out, the full impact of what
was transpiring finally starting to sink in.
            "That's
right, kid."
            Aahz
suddenly leaned forward and clapped Frumple on the shoulder.
            "Congratulations,
Frumple," he exclaimed. "I've got to admit I didn't think
you could do it."
            "What?"
blinked the Deveel.
            "I'm
just glad this squares our debt with you," Aahz continued
without pause. "You won't try to back out on it now, will you?"
            "Frumple!"
Isstvan's voice was dark with menace. "Did you do this to us?"
            "I…
I…." Frumple stammered.
            "Go
ahead, Frumple. Gloat!" Aahz encouraged. "He can't do
anything to you now. Besides, you can teleport out of here anytime
you want."
            "No,
he can't!" snarled Higgens, and his arm flashed forward.
            I
caught a glimpse of a small ball flying through the air before it
exploded against Frumple's forehead in a cloud of purple dust.
            "But…."
began Frumple, but it was too late. In mid-gesture his limbs became
rigid and his face froze. We had another statue on our hands. "Good
move, Higgens," applauded Aahz. "If it wouldn't be too much
trouble, Aahz," interrupted Isstvan. "Could you explain
what's going on here?"
            "Aah!"
said Aahz, "therein lies the story."
            "This
sounds familiar," Quigley mumbled. I poked him in the ribs with
my elbow. We weren't out of this yet.
            "It
seems that Frumple learned about your plans from Throckwoddle.
Apparently he was afraid that if you succeeded in taking over the
dimensions, you would implement price controls, thereby putting him
out of business as a merchant. You know how those Deveels are."
            The
Imps snorted. Isstvan nodded thoughtfully. "Anyway, he decided
to try to stop you. To accomplish this, he blackmailed the four of us
into assisting him. We were to create a diversion while he effected
the actual attack."
            "Well,
what did he do?" prompted Higgens. "He drugged the wine!"
explained Aahz. "Don't you remember?"
            "When?"
asked Brockhurst.
            "When
he dropped that phony crystal into the jug. remember?"
            "But
he drank from the jug, too!" exclaimed Higgens.
            "That's
right, but he had taken an antidote in advance," Aahz finished
with a flourish.
            "So
we're stuck here!" Brockhurst spat in disgust.
            "You
know, Aahz," Isstvan said slowly. "It occurs to me that
even if everything happened exactly as you described it, you and your
friends here played a fairly large part in the plot."
            "You're
right, Isstvan," Aahz admitted, "but I'm prepared to offer
you a bargain."
            "What
kind of a bargain?" Isstvan asked suspiciously.
            "It's
in two parts. First, to clear Tanda and myself from having opposed
you in your last bid for power, I can offer transportation for you
and your allies out of this dimension."
            "Hmm…."
said Isstvan. "And the second part?"
            "For
the second part, I can give you the ultimate vengeance to visit on
Frumple here. In exchange, I want your promise you'll bear no grudge
against the four of us for our part in today's misfortune."
            "Pardon
for four in exchange for vengeance on one?" Isstvan grunted.
"That doesn't sound like much of a deal."
            "I
think you're overlooking something, Isstvan," Aahz cautioned.
            "What's
that?"
            "You've
lost your powers. That makes it four of us against three of you."
            "Look
at your four," Brockhurst sneered. "A woman, a half-trained
apprentice, a broken-down demon hunter and a Pervert."
            "Broken-down?"
Quigley scowled.
            "Easy,
Quigley… and you too. Tanda," Aahz ordered. "Your
three are nothing to brag about either, Brockhurst. Two Imps who've
lost their powers and a fat madman."
            Surprisingly,
this seemed to revive Isstvan's humor. The Imps were not amused. "Now
look, Aahz," Higgens began, "if you want a fight…."
            "You
miss the point entirely, gentlemen," Aahz said soothingly. "I'm
trying to avoid a fight. I'm merely trying to point out that if this
comes to a fight, you'll lose."
            "Not
necessarily," Brockhurst bristled.
            "Inescapably,"
Aahz insisted. "Look, if we fight and we win, you lose. On the
other hand, if we fight and we lose, you lose."
            "How
do you figure that?" Higgens asked suspiciously.
            "Simple!"
said Aahz smugly, "If you kill us, you'll have lost your only
way to get out of this dimension. You'll be stuck forever on Klah. By
my figuring, that's losing."
            "We're
in agreement there," Brockhurst mumbled.
            "Oh,
stop this bickering!" Isstvan interrupted with a chuckle. "Aahz
is right, as usual. He may have lost a couple of fights, both magical
and physical, but I've never heard of anyone out-arguing him."
            "Then
it's a deal?" Aahz asked.
            "It's
a deal!" Isstvan said firmly. "As if we had any choice in
the matter."
            They
shook hands ceremoniously.
            I
noticed the Imps were whispering together and shooting dark glances
in our direction. I wondered if a deal with Isstvan was binding on
the Imps. I wondered if a handshake was legally binding in a
situation such as this. But most of all, I wondered what Aahz had up
his sleeve this time.
            "Well,
Aahz?" Isstvan asked, "Where is this escape clause you
promised?"
            "Right
here!" Aahz said, fishing a familiar object from inside his
shirt and tossing it to Isstvan.
            "A
D-Hopper!" Isstvan cried with delight. "I haven't seen one
of these since…."
            "What
is it?" Higgens interrupted.
            Isstvan
scowled at him.
            "It's
our ticket off this dimension," he exclaimed grudgingly.
            "How
does it work?" Brockhurst asked suspiciously.
            "Trust
me, gentlemen." Isstvan's distasteful expression gave lie to the
joviality of his words. "It works."
            He
turned to Aahz again.
            "Imps!"
he mumbled to himself.
            "You
hired 'em," Aahz commented, unsympathetically.
            "So
I did. Well, what is this diabolical vengeance you have in mind for
Frumple?"
            "That's
easy," smiled Aahz. "Use the D-Hopper and take him back to
Deva."
            "Why
Deva?" Isstvan asked.
            "Because
he's been banned from Deva," Higgens answered, the light
dawning.
            "…
and the Deveels are unequaled at meting out punishment to those who
break their laws," Brockhurst finished with an evil smile.
            "Why
was Frumple banned from Deva?" Tanda whispered to me.
            "I
don't know," I confided. "Maybe he gave a refund or
something."
            "I
don't believe it," she snorted, "I mean he is a Deveel."
            "Aahz,"
Isstvan smiled, regarding the D-Hopper, "I've always admired
your sense of humor. It's even nastier than mine."
            "What
do you expect from a Pervert?" snorted Brockhurst.
            "Watch
your mouth. Imp," I snarled. He was starting to get on my
nerves.
            "Then
it's settled!" Isstvan chortled, clapping his hands together
gleefully. "Brockhurst! Higgens! Come gather around Frumple
here. We're off to Deva."
            "Right
now?" asked Brockhurst.
            "With…
things here so unsettled?" Higgens added, glancing at us again.
            "Oh,
we won't be long," Isstvan assured them.
            "There's
nothing here we can't come back and pick up later."
            "That's
true," admitted Brockhurst, staring at me thoughtfully.
            "Umm…
Isstvan?"
            It
was Quigley.
            

            "Are
you addressing me?" Isstvan asked with mock formality.
            "Yes."
Quigley looked uncomfortable. "Am I to understand you are all
about to depart for some place completely populated with demons?"
            "That
is correct," Isstvan nodded.
            "Could…
that is… would you mind if I accompanied you?"
            "What?"
I exclaimed, genuinely startled. "Why?"
            "Well…"
Quigley said hesitantly, "if there is one thing I have learned
this day, it's that I really know very little about demons."
            "Hear,
hear!" mumbled Aahz.
            "I
am undecided as to whether or not to continue in my chosen
profession," Quigley continued, "but in any case it
behooves me to learn more about demons. What better place could there
be for such study than in a land completely populated with demons?"
            "Why
should we burden ourselves with a demon hunter of all things?"
Brockhurst appealed to Isstvan.
            "Maybe
we could teach him a few things about demons," Higgens suggested
in an overly innocent voice, giving his partner a covert poke in the
side.
            "What?
Hmm… You know, you're right, Higgens." Brockhurst was
suddenly smiling again.
            "Good!"
exclaimed Isstvan. "We'll make a party of it."
            "In
that case," purred Tanda, "you won't mind if I tag along,
too."
            "What?"
exclaimed Brockhurst.
            "Why?"
challenged Higgens.
            "To
help, of course," she smiled. "I want to be there when you
teach Quigley about demons. Maybe I can help him learn."
            "Wonderful,
wonderful," Isstvan beamed, overriding the Imps' objections.
"The more the merrier. Aahz? Skeeve? Will you be joining us?"
            "Not
this time, thanks," Aahz replied before I could open my mouth.
"The kid here and I have a few things to go over that won't
wait."
            "Like
what? "I asked.
            "Shut
up, kid," Aahz hissed, then smiled again at the group. "You
all run along. We'll be here when you comeback."
            "We'll
be looking forward to it." Brockhurst smiled grimly.
            "G'bye,
Aahz, Skeeve!" Tanda waved. "I'll look for you next time
around."
            "But
Tanda…."I began.
            "Don't
worry, lad," Quigley assured me. "I'll make sure nothing
happens to her."
            Behind
him, Tanda shot me a bawdy wink.
            "Aahz!"
Isstvan chuckled. "I do enjoy your company. We must work
together more often."
            He
adjusted the settings on the D-Hopper and prepared to trigger it.
            "Good-bye,
Isstvan." Aahz smiled and waved. "Remember me!"
            There
was a rippling in the air and they were gone. All of them.
            "Aahz!"
I said urgently. "Did you see how those Imps looked at us?"
            "Hmm?
Oh. Yeah, kid. I told you they were vicious little creatures."
            "But
what are we going to do when they get back?"
            "Don't
worry about it, kid."
            "Don't
worry about it!" I shrieked. "We've got to…."
            "…
because they aren't coming back," Aahz finished.
            That
stopped me.
            "But…
when they get done on Deva…."
            "That's
the joke, kid," Aahz grinned at me. "They aren't going to
Deva."
        

        

            

                Chapter Twenty-Six
            

            
                A woman, like a good piece of music, should have a solid end.
                F.  Schubert
            
            "THEY
aren't going to Deva?"
            I
was having a rough time dealing with the concept.
            "That's
right, kid," Aahz said, pouring himself some more wine.
            "But
Isstvan set the D-Hopper himself."
            "Yeah!"
Aahz grinned smugly. "But last night I made one extra
preparation for this sortie. I changed the markings on the dials."
            "Then
where are they going?"
            "Beats
me!" Aahz shrugged, taking a deep draught of the wine. "But
I'm betting it'll take 'em a long time to find their way back. There
are a lot of settings on a D-Hopper."
            "But
what about Tanda and Quigley?"
            "Tanda
can take care of Quigley," Aahz assured me. "Besides, she
has the powers to pull them out anytime she wants."
            "She
does?"
            "Sure.
But she'll probably have a few laughs just tagging along for a while.
Can't say as I blame her. I'd love to see Quigley deal with a few
dimensions myself."
            He
took another generous gulp of the wine.
            "Aahz!"
I cried in sudden realization. "The wine!"
            "What
about it? Oh. Don't worry kid," he smiled. "I've already
lost my powers, remember? Besides, you don't think I'd drug my own
wine, do you?"
            "You
drugged the wine?"
            "Yeah.
That was my secret weapon. You didn't really . believe all that bunk
about Frumple, did you?"
            "Ahh…
of course not," I said, offended.
            Actually,
even though I knew Frumple hadn't done it, I had completely lost
track of actually who had done what and to whom.
            "Here,
kid." Aahz handed me his flagon and picked up the jug. "Have
some yourself. You did pretty good this afternoon."
            I
took the flagon, but somehow couldn't bring myself to drink any.
            "What
did you put in the wine, anyway?" I asked.
            "Joke
powder," Aahz replied. "As near as I can tell, it's the
same stuff Garkin used on me. You can put it in a drink, sprinkle it
over food, or burn it and have your victim inhale the smoke."
            I
had a sudden flash recollection of the brazier billowing smoke as
Aahz materialized.
            "What
does it do?"
            "Weren't
you paying attention, kid?" Aahz cocked his head at me. "It
takes away your powers."
            "Permanently?"
            "Of
course not!" Aahz scoffed. "Only for a century."
            "What's
the antidote?"
            "There
isn't one… at least I couldn't get the stall proprietor to
admit to having one. Maybe when you get a little better with the
magik, we'll go back to Deva and beat an answer out of him."
            I
thought for a few minutes. That seemed to answer all my questions…
except one.
            "Say…
urn, Aahz?"
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "What
do we do now?"
            "About
what?" Aahz asked.
            "I
mean, what do we do? We've been spending all the time since we met
getting ready to fight Isstvan. Well, it's over. Now what do we do?"
            "What
you do, apprentice," Aahz said sternly, "is devote your
time to your magik. You've still got a long way to go before you're
even close to Master status. As for me… well, I guess most of
my time will be spent teaching you."
            He
poured a little more wine down his throat. "Actually, we're in
pretty good shape," he stated. "We've got a magik crystal
courtesy of Frumple… and that crummy sword if we search his
gear."
            "And
a malfunctioning fire-ring," I prompted.
            "Urn…."
said Aahz. "Actually, I… ahh… well, I gave the
ring to Tanda."
            "Gave?"
I asked. "You gave something away?" Aahz shrugged.
            "I'm
a soft touch. Ask anybody."
            "Hmm…."
I said.
            "We've,
um, also got a war unicorn if we want to go anywhere," Aahz
hastened on, "and that stupid dragon of yours."
            "Gleep
isn't stupid!" I insisted hotly.
            "Okay,
okay," Aahz amended, "… your intelligent, personable
dragon."
            "That's
better," I mumbled.
            "….
Even though it beats me why we'd want to go anyplace," Aahz
commented, looking around him. "This place seems sound enough.
You'd have some good force lines to play with, and the wine cellar
will be well stocked if I know Isstvan. We could do lots worse for a
base of operations."
            Another
question occurred to me.
            "Say,
Aahz?"
            "Yeah,
kid?"
            "A
few minutes ago you said you wanted to see Quigley when he visited
other dimensions… and you seem to have a weak spot for
Tanda…."
            "Yeah?"
Aahz growled. "So?"
            "So
why didn't you go along with them? You didn't have to get stranded in
this dimension."
            "Isstvan's
a fruitcake," Aahz declared pointedly, "and I don't like
Imps. You think I'd like having them for traveling companions?"
            "But
you said Tanda could travel the dimensions by herself. Couldn't you
and she have…."
            "All
right, all right," interrupted Aahz. "You want me to say
it? I stayed here because of you."
            "Why?"
            "Because
you're not up to traveling the dimensions yet. Not until you…."
            "I
mean, why stay with me at all?"
            "Why?
Because you're my apprentice! That's why."
            Aahz
seemed genuinely angry. "We made a deal, remember? You help me
against Isstvan and I teach you magik. Well, you did your part and
now I'm going to do mine. I'm going to teach you magik if it kills
you… or me, which is more probable!"
            "Yes,
Aahz!" I agreed hastily.
            "Besides,"
he mumbled, taking another drink. "I like you."
            "Excuse
me?" I said. "I didn't quite hear that."
            "Then
pay attention!" Aahz barked. "I said drink your wine, and
give some to that stupid dragon of yours. I will allow you one…
count it, one… night of celebration. Then bright and early
tomorrow, we start working in earnest."
            "Yes,
Aahz," I said obediently.
            "And
kid," Aahz grinned, "don't worry about it being boring. We
don't have to go looking for adventure. In our profession, it usually
comes looking for us."
            I
had an ugly feeling he was right.
            The End
        

    


          See more books in http://www.e-reading.club
